= October 15 2007 Conference Call =

== Where ==

Starting Time: Jan 22, 2007 at 2:30 PM US/Eastern
Occurs: Every Monday from Jan 22, 2007 to Jan 16, 2012
Duration: 1 hour

To join the call, do one of the following:
  a. Dial +1-734-615-7474 (NON-US/CA USERS MUST USE THIS NUMBER - SYSTEM WILL NOT CALL OUT), +1-866-411-0013 (toll free US/Canada Only) or
+1-800-392-6130 (alternate toll free US/Canada Only) and enter access code 0188065, or
  b. To have the system call you, click here:https://edial.internet2.edu/call/0188065;

== When ==

October 15 2007 - 2:30 EDT

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees: Jeff, Les, Yee, Luke, Chris, Maxim, John
 # Team Updates
   # UDEL
     * Martin is at OGF.
   # Ga Tech
   # ESnet
   # Internet2
     * Jason and Aaron unavailable today. Jeff forgot to mention: the FMM demos were very successful. perfSONAR related talks went well, and attendance was reasonable. Thanks to everyone that put things together for that. Specifically, gmaps was well received at the perfSONAR WG.
   # SLAC
     * Yee has been working on name space issues, and abstracting out the MP functionality for the daemon architecture.
   # IU
     * Luke reports that there is an issue with the way the store file is updated for the SNMP MA (the configuration changes before data is actually available). He will be working on something to make that happen in a consistent way. Jeff asked about the possibility of the IU nagios system being used to monitor pS-PS services - Chris reported that it would probably be easy and he will look into it.
   # FNAL
     * Maxim reports that he as abandoned the idea of using XMLDB for the pingER metadata model. Instead he is mapping queries into SQL on the backend. He is also working on a marshalling/unmarshalling architecture. Jeff was concerned that this would be too heavy weight (like the Java implementation). Maxim indicates that it is not as cumbersome as that interface. Jeff and others will review Maxim's implementation when he checks in to see more closely what Maxim is proposing. If it is not too heavy weight, it could be a good way to make it easier for new services to be written quickly. (Especially in combination with the new daemon architecture simplifications.)
     * Additionally, there was some discussion about filter-chaining and eventTypes.
 # Deployment status
   * Who has what pieces installed, how 'supported' are they. Can we make deployed versions public during SC?
   * Should we attempt to setup some service 'monitoring'? It might be worth it to us to get more detailed problem reports so we can improve reliability.
     * As above, Chris will look into it. It was also discussed that we should have these checks be more specific for some services to ensure that the 'backend' is being updated.
   * Circuit status is now handling IN2P3 for HOPI
     * Who should be the 'contact' - Dante is asking...
     * IU NOC will be the 'contact', they will pull Aaron in if needed.
 # Standards docs
   * Topic postponed to after OGF meeting.
     * OGF base schema doc status
     * Topo schema doc status
     * LS protocol doc status
     * other? (MA/MP - individual profiles...)
 # FMM report
   * IRNC has deployments (what do we need to do to support this?)
     * John reports a couple of new deployments for TransPAC2 and APAN. He is not sure what additional support they might like at this point. John is also planning to send notes on his installation experiences with the pS-PS code.
 # pS-PS code
   * Anything new in the infrastructure portions?
   * Central daemon architecture started
   * owamp/bwctl 'archive' coordination
 # pS architecture
   * Scheduling interactions
     * Resource protection vs regular schedule
     * How do we ensure on-demand and scheduled to co-exist nicely
     * This was actually discussed some in the SLAC update. Essentially, we talked about some of the requirements for this. Jeff will look for information links on the Resource Protector (RP) service to share with the group.
 #  Next call will be October 29, 2:30 EDT

== Last Updated ==

$Id$

