= July 17 2007 Meeting =


== Where ==

Summer Joint Techs 2008, Fermilab, Batavia IL

== When ==

July 17 2007

== Atendees ==

 * John Dugan, ESnet
 * Eric Boyd, Internet2
 * Ville Aikas, University of WA
 * Jeff Boote, Internet2
 * Wenji Wu, Fermilab
 * Rich Carlson, Internet2
 * Joe Metzger, ESnet
 * Jason Zurawski, Internet2
 * Maxim Grigoriev, Fermilab
 * Susan Evett, Internet2
 * Matt Wilson, Northwestern
 * Aaron Brown, Internet2

== Agenda/Minutes ==

Meeting commenced at 12:40 pm CDT. 
Meeting adjourned at 1:50 pm CDT.

Discussion topics included:

 # Listing of tasks required for a full release
 # Goals for future perfSONAR-PS releases
 # Rationale for offering Perl (non-Java) implementation
 # Interoperability of different perfSONAR implementations
 # Outside interest in group efforts
 # Work to be completed by September 2007
 # Action items

=== Tasks ===

The group discussed tasks required for a full release and that could be 
accomplished/attempted in the next six months. (LHC support was emphasized) 
The list includes:

 # Standards (group effort) - Martin Swany, lead
 # Services
   # LS server ('global' at Internet2 but not Multi-Domain) - JZ, lead
   # Dispatch Daemon - JZ and JB, lead
   # Multi-Domain LS (Perl) - JZ, lead (with Maciej Glowiak [PSNC])
   # AMI-MAs & Scheduler - JB, WM
   # Topology - AB, lead (with JZ)
   # Status - AB, lead
   # Circuit Status Service AB, lead
   # PingER MP/MA - MG, lead
   # Tool MP (ping, traceroute, owamp, bwctl, etc. - command line tools, could be Java CLMP...)
   # SNMP MA - JZ, lead
 # Testing (Functional, interoperability, and performance)
 # Packaging/distribution
 # Configuration service
 # Maintenance of codebase
 # Documentation
 # User Support
 # GUI/Visualization
   * Gmaps (ytl)
   * pS-UI plug-ins (???)
 # NOC Alarm
 # Cacti plugin - Google Summer-of-Code project (maybe

=== Goals ===

Should the group try to release perfSONAR-PS at the same time as a Java version 
is released? JB was concerned that the release process used by the European 
contingent was time consuming and overly complex. He also wanted to ensure 
that the code was available via CPAN (instead of just through the pS webpages). 
He indicated that only a common protocol description was required for a 
co-release. That having the software bundled together was not particularly 
useful.

EB expressed an interest in the ps-PS group focusing on a joint release with 
ps-UI by next summer (2008), a request seconded by JM. MG agreed and felt that 
it was important for the pS-PS group to stop referring to 'them' and 'us' 
wherever possible. JB noted that Roman Lapacz is interested in releasing some 
MA/MPs in Python, which would change the nomenclature to 'perl version', 
'java version', and 'python version', and away from US vs. European. EB 
noted that, at a recent pS group meeting in England, developers agreed to 
do some 'micro' releases of services (stand-alones).

The group agreed that the CPAN distribution is more likely to be adopted (at 
least in the US, by the LHC community) and the degree of adoption will be its 
own argument for using this format for delivery in future releases.

RATIONALE

=== Rationale ===

VA asked why the group felt the need to offer a non-Java implementation; JB 
indicated that licensing (via SUN) was a problem but the biggest issue was that 
the sys admins who would need to be involved in deployment are not highly 
skilled in Java. For example, of the 100+ sys admins involved in the LHC-US 
effort, for whom deployment must occur and must be as easy as possible, 99% 
of them are comfortable with Perl and less than 20% have similar skills with 
Java.

=== Interoperability ===

MG expressed concern that users would need some functionality from both versions; 
JB agreed that there was a great need for interoperability tests. However, he 
felt that the goal was to be interoperable, not to have the same release 
cycle. EB argued that there should (at some point in the next year) be a 
joint perl/java implementation release that is interoperable. JB argued that 
the primary goal of US developers was to get functionality out (over 
coordinated release management). JM felt that the goal for the interoperable 
release should be summer 2008; the release would be the most recent releases 
of each set of code that was subjected to intense interoperability tests.

EB emphasized the need to avoid having a 'them' vs. 'us' attitude or 
appearing to have a US vs. European version of the code. He noted that Roman 
Lapacz (PSNC) is working on several Python MA/MPs; if those are released, 
concurrently with the Perl version, it will eliminate these concerns. EB 
recommended that this group support the 'micro releases' of services 
between now and the next major release of perfSONAR code.

=== Interest ===

JZ reported that he was creating an RRD MA; JM urged the group to replace 
the existing one with JZ's when it is complete.

MW reported that he was being pushed to put a performance measurement system 
in place for Northwestern. After listening to the talks on Monday, perfSONAR 
piqued his interest.

=== WOork Completion by September 2007 ===

MG asked for the group to compile a list of probable work that could be 
completed by September:

 # LS (regular)
 # Dispatch daemon (draft)
 # Multi-domain LS (draft)
 # AMI-MAs (OWAMP/BWCTL)
 # PingER MA/MP
 # Circuit Status Service
 # Status
 # Topology (sufficient to support status)
 # SNMP MA

=== Action Items ===

 # Set priorities
 # Assess availability of resources
 # Setup work groups for tasks
 # Inter-process communication via mail threads

== Last Updated ==

$Id: 20070717Meet.wiki 14 2008-07-24 20:24:02Z jwzurawski $

