= October 01 2007 Conference Call =

== Where ==

Starting Time: Jan 22, 2007 at 2:30 PM US/Eastern
Occurs: Every Monday from Jan 22, 2007 to Jan 16, 2012
Duration: 1 hour

To join the call, do one of the following:
  a. Dial +1-734-615-7474 (NON-US/CA USERS MUST USE THIS NUMBER - SYSTEM WILL NOT CALL OUT), +1-866-411-0013 (toll free US/Canada Only) or
+1-800-392-6130 (alternate toll free US/Canada Only) and enter access code 0188065, or
  b. To have the system call you, click here:https://edial.internet2.edu/call/0188065;

== When ==

October 01 2007 - 2:30 EDT

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees: Maxim, Martin, Aaron, Jason, Jeff, Les, Yee, Chris
 # Team Updates
   # FNAL
     * Maxim has worked on modifying the way the pingerMA uses metadata to take into account the 'count' issue. Most queries do not want to differentiate based on this field, it is present mostly to indicate on-demand tests. In the future, Maxim hopes to utilize the Topology and LS services to make this more modular. Next Maxim intends to enhance the XQuery capabilities and also to enhance the visualization tools.
   # UDEL
     * Martin has been working on the Base schema document as well as some enhancements to the topology document.
   # Ga Tech
   # ESnet
   # Internet2
     * Aaron has worked on the topology document and the circuit status service. Also, he made an initial pass at merging the pS MA service code. This will help outline areas that need to be discussed to determine the architecture we need to move forward with. Also, Aaron created an MA example skeleton out of the merged code that can be used as a basis for new services.
     * Jason made enhancements to the LS and specifically the way it uses the XMLDB backend based on the documentation and hints on message boards he was able to substantially increase the performance. He has also spent time working on the FMM demo, and the dLS protocol document. Jason will be working on the dLS implementation next.
     * Jeff has worked on bwctl, and the FMM demo. Jeff has also pushed forward the software security issue that Yee brought up on the list. The intention is to get a very simple security 'plan' in place that can be referenced and enhanced over time.
   # SLAC
     * Yee has primarily been working on a topology service for pingER. He needs somewhere to house new services he writes since the SLAC policies do not allow him to host them locally right now. He has also worked on an MP framework that he would like others to look at.
   # IU
     * Chris has continued to work on getting the IN2P3 circuit monitored with Aaron. The SNMP configuration is mostly set with only a few missing files still causing problems. Chris will give Yee an account on ndb2 this week so he can host some services there. Chris will also attempt to install the gmaps interface on ndb2.
 # pS-PS
     * Anything new in the infrastructure portions?
     * XMLDB changes
       * see jason's report above
     * Code-Merge status
       * see aaron's report above
 # Schema issues
   * see martin's report above
   * Topology (contact information, etc...)
     * see aaron's/yee's report and information on the list. "Contacts" information has been enhanced.
 # Security issues
   * see jeff's report above
     * Code reviews/tests
     * Statements about intent
 # Follow up on LHC-OPN support, requirements, priorities
    * Jeff will be attending the JRA-1 meeting in Seville Oct 30/31. Eric will be attending the LHC-OPN meeting the first week of November.
 #  Next call will be 15 October, 2:30 EDT.

== Last Updated ==

$Id$

