= April 16 2007 Conference Call =

== Where ==

Starting Time: Jan 22, 2007 at 2:30 PM US/Eastern
Occurs: Every Monday from Jan 22, 2007 to Jan 16, 2012
Duration: 1 hour

To join the call, do one of the following:
  a. Dial +1-734-615-7474 (NON-US/CA USERS MUST USE THIS NUMBER - SYSTEM WILL NOT CALL OUT), +1-866-411-0013 (toll free US/Canada Only) or
+1-800-392-6130 (alternate toll free US/Canada Only) and enter access code 0188065, or
  b. To have the system call you, click here:https://edial.internet2.edu/call/0188065;

== When ==

April 16 2007 - 2:30 EDT

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attending: Martin, Jason, Warren, Joe, Jeff, Yee, Asif, Luke, Chris, Maxim
 # Team Updates
   # UDEL (Martin/Jason)
     * Martin still has a student working on a C perfSONAR implementation using CGI. The Topology work continues with most enhancements devoted to specialized name-spaces for specialized technologies.
     * Jason has been working primarily on parsing changes for XML::LibXML integration as well as work on the SMM demos.
   # Ga Tech (Warren)
     * Warren has been looking at the tutorial some more and is interested in creating a pS archive around the ITEC/Internet2 owamp data.
   # ESnet (Joe/Mike)
     * Joe is interested in the AMI code - especially if it can be wrapped in a pS service. He has a student working on a google-maps interface to the data. He also needs to come up with a recommended set of services for LHCOPN.
   # Internet2 (Eric/Jeff)
     * Jeff has been working on the demo exclusively.
   # SLAC (Yee/Les/Asif)
     * Asif has been working on some kind of Java front-end.
     * Yee has been continuing to work on a Google-maps demo.
   # IU (Luke/Chris)
     * Luke has the SNMP MA up and running - it is ready for testing.
   # FNAL (Maxim)
     * Maxim plans to work through the tutorial and perhaps create a pingER MA.
 # pS-PS
   * Parsing status
     * Anyone have feedback on the new XML::LibXML methods?
   * Any changes others need to be aware of?
   * Any tutorial feedback?
   * Any questions from new developers?
 # RRD Service (Internet2 network deployment)
   * What is needed to make this a 'production' service?
   * Feedback on what is needed to make the software a reasonable distribution for other network administrators.
 # pS-Topo Service
   * Status of Internet2 topology database exposed with pS-topology schema.
   * Overview of available messages. *Martin and Chris will work on this.
 # L2 Status (Internet2 network deployment)
   * Current status (IU/Jason)
     * N/A
 # SQL-MA
   * Update (Maxim/Jason)
     * N/A
 # Post-Internet2 network deployments
   * As we get services working, we need to have a few of us concentrating on packaging and deployment/configuration scripts to make them easy to install.
 # Spring Member Meeting
   * Can we show the SLAC analysis/google maps interface interacting with Internet2 RRD MA in Eric's performance update? (Main session) 
     * Jeff will call Yee to work out details.
   * perfSONAR will be used in HOPI demo
     # Deploy RRD MP/MA to grab SNMP utilization for both ends of a HOPI circuit connection.
     # Iperf will generate traffic between two hosts connected to circuit.
     # HOPI/Oscars-BRU/Dragon software will reconfigure the circuit for larger/smaller capacity.
     # Speedometer style web page will interact with RRD MA to show utilization as it changes.

== Last Updated ==

$Id$

