= August 27 2007 Conference Call =


== Where ==

Starting Time: Jan 22, 2007 at 2:30 PM US/Eastern
Occurs: Every Monday from Jan 22, 2007 to Jan 16, 2012
Duration: 1 hour

To join the call, do one of the following:
  a. Dial +1-734-615-7474 (NON-US/CA USERS MUST USE THIS NUMBER - SYSTEM WILL NOT CALL OUT), +1-866-411-0013 (toll free US/Canada Only) or
+1-800-392-6130 (alternate toll free US/Canada Only) and enter access code 0188065, or
  b. To have the system call you, click here:https://edial.internet2.edu/call/0188065;

== When ==

August 27 2007 - 2:30 EDT

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees: Yee, Luke, Chris, Maxim, Martin, Joe, Jason, Aaron, Jeff
 # Team Updates
   # SLAC
     * Yee has been primarily working on the pingER-MA, and converting a decade worth of data into the new schema format. Yee and Maxim discussed performance issues with the 'file' style metadata store as well as other issues regarding deployment testing. Please add more details if wanted.
   # IU
     * Luke has the SNMP-MA configuration file generation modified to include errors as well as the additional interfaces that were missing before. Jason will work with Luke to deploy the latest software with this configuration. They will then let Jeff know so he can get this service announced throughout the community. Chris has been working with Aaron on describing the Internet2 network topology for the topo service. They have gone through more iterations, and the service and topology description are ready for testing. Yee expressed interested in the topology service (as is Joe). Aaron will work with Yee to show him the topology schema that is being used, and how it is organized.
   # FNAL
      * Maxim has been working on the perfSONAR-MA. Specifically on configuration management, a new database, and testing. He will be moving FNAL's pingER instance to a new machine next week in support of this effort. Additionally, Matt Crawford will be giving a presentation at CHEPS next week that will outline an FNAL use case for perfSONAR.
   # UDEL
      * Martin has been working with Jeff/Jason on the distributed LS refinements. He has also been updating the tooling required to update the nmwg 'standard' document in preparation for something like a Last-Call at the October OGF meeting. Jeff asked about discussing a way to handle service level 'protocol' standards. Martin, Jeff and probably Eric will get together to discuss ways of doing this.
   # Ga Tech
      * N/A
   # ESnet
      * Joe will be installing the Java RRD MA and the Perl SNMP MA soon to allow for comparison testing. Also, Brian Tierney will be starting to work on some perfSONAR related things in October. Maxim was interested in finding out if Joe (and Internet2) would be interested in installing the pingER-MP. After some discussion, it was pointed out that visibility into the backbone networks was already possible with OWAMP, and pingER was probably not needed. pingER is most useful to allow testing with non-engaged partners who have not installed any specific software.
   # Internet2
      * Jason has been working on refining the distributed-LS specification. Additionally he has been preparing for full CPAN releases of the SNMP-MA and the LS. He has also made test instances of those services available. Interoperability testing has taken up a fairly large amount of time.
      * Aaron has the Topology service working to expose the Internet2 information from Chris. The bulk of his time has been spent working on the CircuitStatus-MA (The E2EMon compatible service) which seems to be working now. Aaron is still working with Chad to get SNMP access to Internet2 devices to get the LinkStatus component working. Once this is working, it can be tied together with the Topology Service and the CircuitStatus-MA to expose real circuits and links to E2EMon. A very nice feature is that the CircuitStatus-MA uses the LS to find available LinkStatus-MP's so new links should dynamically show up.
      * Jason and Aaron have both worked with Mark Gordon (an Internet2 intern) to make their services known to perfSONAR-UI. Mark has made plugins to pS-UI for this purpose, and has also been able to get it to interact directly with the LS service. Information on the plugin can be seen from: https://wiki.internet2.edu/confluence/display/PSPS/PerfsonarUI+Plugins
      * Jeff has worked with Martin/Jason on the distributed-LS refinements. Aside from that he has been spending all of his time working on bwctl.
 # pS-PS
   * Anything new in the infrastructure portions?
     * No
 # Interoperability Testing
   * It is becoming clear that we will need to have service/protocol level standards documents.
     * Java RRD-MA and Perl SNMP-MA
       * Most issues were due to shortcuts Roman too with chaining. He mostly agrees that changes are needed. Jason was required to make the SNMP-MA service conform to the way it currently works because pS-UI (the only wide-spread client) expected to see messages this way. Nina and Roman have agreed to enhance their code to support the richer functionality.
     * LS
       * Maciej has some strange behavior in the Java LS. Specifically with regard to updates, which are implemented as a full delete and add. There is currently no way to implement and incremental updated of the service information given the current message formats. Additionally, responses to queries are given in text format only, even though a client will most likely want to use it as XML. Jason (and Jeff) are attempting to work out these issues with Maciej.
 # SNMP-MA Service (Internet2 network deployment - util.net.internet2.edu)
   * Errors/discards?
     * Errors - yes, Discards - after a hardware upgrade.
   * Is it ready to announce?
     * Jason and Luke will get the latest code working with the latest metadata config file, and then the service can be announced.
 # pS-Topo Service / L2 Status MA for Internet2 network
   * status update
     * Aaron and Chris have an instance exposing the Internet2 network data ready for testing.
 # pS-LinkStatus and pS-CircuitStatus for Internet2 network
   * status update
     * Aaron is attempting to get SNMP access from IU, and will make test instances available once that is done.
 # pS-dev meeting at LBL
   * http://wiki.perfsonar.net/jra1-wiki/index.php/Berkeley_Dev_Sep_11_2007
 # Next call will be Sept 17th (the week after the ps-dev meeting at LBL)
 
== Last Updated ==

$Id: 20070827Call.wiki 14 2008-07-24 20:24:02Z jwzurawski $

