=  August 25 2008 Conference Call =

== When ==

 September 22 2008 - 2:30 EDT

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees: 
 # Issue specific meeting: PAM 2009 paper

=== PAM 2009 Paper Submission ===
==== Agenda ====
 * Discuss current state of paper.
 ** Please look at the latest version of the paper and be ready to discuss the status.
 * Deadlines:
 ** If we want Susan to edit, we need to let her know *when* and give her some time...
==== Summary/Actions ====
 * Final deadline is Oct 1, 6:00pm PST.
 * Jeff will make an edit pass over much of the paper today and tomorrow.
 * Martin will make an edit pass over the IS section, and a full pass following Jeff.
 * Jason will work with Shawn to get a UMich endpoint working.
 * Maxim will get a FNAL endpoint working.
 * Maxim/Jason will work together to generate throughput data.
 * Brian will continue to make edit passes throughout.
 * Brian/Martin will make the final passes while together next week in Seattle.
 * We will attempt to get Susan to make an edit pass Wednesday morning (due date).

=== Logistics ===
 # Next meeting will be Sept 29, 2:30 EST

== Where ==

Number of sites: 10
Mode: Voice Switched

Phone Ports: 10
Phone Bridge Information: (Scheduled through December 2008 due to scheduling limitations.)
Dial +1-614-247-6427
At the prompt, enter the Conference ID: 9746 followed by the pound (#) key.

GDS Dialing Directions:
 # Register with a GDS-enabled Gatekeeper.  To borrow space see: http://commons.internet2.edu/reggate.html
 # Make sure you are connecting at 384 kbps.
 # Dial 001189 783 9746 (no spaces)

IP Dialing Directions
 # Dial 192.148.244.143.
 # Enable FAR END camera control.
 # DOWN ARROW until you highlight Internet2 9746
 # Use the RIGHT ARROW to enter that conference.
 # Do not forget to disable the FAR END camera control.

== Last Updated ==

$Id$