=  August 04 2008 Conference Call =


== Where ==

Number of sites: 10
Mode: Voice Switched

Phone Ports: 10
Phone Bridge Information: (Scheduled through December 2008 due to scheduling limitations.)
Dial +1-614-247-6427
At the prompt, enter the Conference ID: 9746 followed by the pound (#) key.

GDS Dialing Directions:
 # Register with a GDS-enabled Gatekeeper.  To borrow space see: http://commons.internet2.edu/reggate.html
 # Make sure you are connecting at 384 kbps.
 # Dial 001189 783 9746 (no spaces)

IP Dialing Directions
 # Dial 192.148.244.143.
 # Enable FAR END camera control.
 # DOWN ARROW until you highlight Internet2 9746
 # Use the RIGHT ARROW to enter that conference.
 # Do not forget to disable the FAR END camera control.

== When ==

 August 04 2008 - 2:30 EDT

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees: Jason, Maxim, Aaron, Joe
 # Team Updates
   # Internet2
     * Jason: Wiki migration.  Need people to update services.  Helped get ready for APAN.  Modifications to SNMP MA to support meta queries on data formats (needs lots of work).  
     * Aaron: Post JTs activity is to modify OSCARS to use the topology service to do path finding (paths internal to local domain, hop into next domain).  Using 2 seperate path finding situations: inter/intra domain.  Inter: Each domain has a 'routes' file that explains which domain given certain situations.  Calculates path based on in/out info.  Aaron's approach doesn't use static routes.  All of this written in Java.  BWCTL testing: looking to do full release in next week or so for 1.3.  Doing basic testing (32/64 bit linux, freebsd) on src/dst.  
     * Jeff: At an SC meeting, will report in later.
   # IU
   # UDEL
   # Ga Tech
   # ESnet 
     * Joe: Deploying tools on testers.  Using CFEngine.  
   # SLAC
   # FNAL
     * Maxim: Web GUI.  Added feature for Jason (direct URL for graph).  Fixed some bugs.  Trying to deploy w/ w/o apache.  SQLite issues in PingER (BNL issues).  Will look into warnings.
   # MCNC
 # JT Techs Wrap Up
   * Talk about the disk.  Maxim: Need a more PR centric web page.  No one has contacted us about it yet.  More official release in the last week for PR purposes.  'Stable' by Oct.  Joe wants: Security info (e.g. iptables) - will come from SOC student in a couple of weeks.  Also wants to discuss ways to 'update' your testing star as people come online (e.g. define a group).  Lastly has 2 NTP servers to add to the default config.
   * Some talk about SOAP in perl.  
 # Wiki Migration
   * Some content there already
   * Follow the current structure (authors need to fill in the blanks on their services)
   * Use new wiki from now on
   * Migrate/Kill anything you won't need.
 # LHC Disk (Postponed talking about the major issues due to attendance)
   * Hardening
     * PingER
       * Warning handling - Maxim will address.
     * hLS
       * Database startup size (DB_CONFIG issues) - Jason will address.
     * SNMP MA
       * Better startup/test procedures on cacti integration - Distant future
       * cricket/mrtg inclusion - Not so distant future.
     * perfSONAR-BUOY
       * OWAMP Collection Agent - Fall
       * Conversion into pS space of collection agents - Fall/Winter
       * MA Database handling - Fall
       * Configuration
   * SOC Improvement roll in (over next month or two)
   * Community Involvement (Testing by Jon Dugan/Brian/MCNC/GT?)
 # GLIF Demo Update (Aaron/Jeff)
   * Aaron: E2E mon demo.  Showing GLIF members how to deploy/use the stuff.  Moving slow due to provisioning.  KISTI up? Others no.  May need to register data into LS (Aaron can right a GUI to bypass E2E mon) = theorized way forward for DCN
   * What is the plan (wikify it?)
     * Copy to our wiki 
   * Group inter-dependencies
     * gLS API/gLS/hLS Instances - Jason
     * GUIs - Aaron/Jason
     * Status monitor - Aaron
     * E2EMon Setup - Maxim? - Aaron
 # FMM/SC08 Demo Planning (Postponed)
   * What should/could we do?
     * Use the Disks/gLS
     * New GUIs (Fusion/addl web things)
     * Incorporate *all* services; total package of e2e monitoring (potential use case is UMich -> Merit -> Internet2 Network -> SOX -> GT)
   * Individuals wanting to be involved
   * Deadlines
 # Next meeting will be August 11, 2008

== Last Updated ==

$Id$