=  December 11, 2008 Conference Call 4:00 pm EST =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees: Brian, Joe, Aaron, Jason, John Hicks, Maxim, Jeff
 # Issue: Release Management
 # Release Management Czar (Cat herder): Jason Zurawski
   # See [ReleaseManagement] for the procedure we intend to use.
   # Release TODO:
     * Gather up current documentation of practices, post to wiki
       # CPAN - Aaron
       # RPM - Aaron (*IN PROGRESS*)
       # Deb - Aaron
     * Document New Tasks
       * Release Process (General) - Jason  (*IN PROGRESS*)
       * Release Process Specific
         # perfSONAR-PS - Jason (*IN PROGRESS*)
         # BWCTL - Aaron/Jeff
         # OWAMP - Aaron/Jeff
         # NDT - Rich/Aaron
       * Yum Repo - TBD
       * Apt Repo - TBD
       * Ports - TBD
     * Create Roadmap/Milestones - Jeff/Jason
       # perfSONAR-PS - Group Input
       # performance node - Larger Group Input
       # OWAMP - Jeff/Aaron
       # BWCTL - Jeff/Aaron
       # NDT - Rich/Aaron
       # DCN - DCN Folks
       # Phoebus - Martin and Gang
 # Actions/Decisions/Open questions from discussion:
   * *Decision*: Aim for 2 releases a year.
   * *Everyone*: Review branch structure recommendation.
   * *Everyone*: Review release mgmt notes, and make suggestions for changes.
   * *Question*: How will we synchronize release schedules between dependent projects. (i.e. pS-NPToolkit)
   * *Jason*: Add something on integration/interoperability testing to the release. (each service needs to be tested with the other services it is expected to work with - perhaps with older releases of them.)
   * *Brian*: Include Q/A in test framework outline.
 # Next meeting will be Dec 18, 4:00 pm Eastern Time

== Where ==

ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS:  00113498255555
 * phone: 1-510-883-7860  then 8255555# at the prompt.

== Last Updated ==

$Id$
