=  May 05 2008 Conference Call =

== Where ==

Starting Time: Jan 22, 2007 at 2:30 PM US/Eastern
Occurs: Every Monday from Jan 22, 2007 to Jan 16, 2012
Duration: 1 hour

To join the call, do one of the following:
  a. Dial +1-734-615-7474 (NON-US/CA USERS MUST USE THIS NUMBER - SYSTEM WILL NOT CALL OUT), +1-866-411-0013 (toll free US/Canada Only) or
+1-800-392-6130 (alternate toll free US/Canada Only) and enter access code 0188065, or
  b. To have the system call you, click here:https://edial.internet2.edu/call/0188065;

== When ==

 May 05 2008 - 2:30 EDT

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees: Jason, Martin, Joe Brian, Maxim, Jeff
 # Team Updates
   # IU
   # FNAL
     * Maxim has been working on details regarding rpm installation and deployment for the MDM release. He is also concerned with Debian installations. Maxim will discuss how Debian packages will be built with Aaron. He is also beginning to look at visualization details.
     * A discussion on the DFN 'rsync/perl object data channel' extension ensued. Some members of the group are very concerned that this effort will hinder interoperability. Martin has been involved with attempting to ensure the extensions are done in a way that does not interfere with the normal extension mechanisms. Martin will ask DFN to share the specific message details that they are planning to use to help ensure that the extensions are done in a way that makes it clear that they are a DFN specific extension. For example, by using a dfn.de rooted namespace for the eventType.
   # UDEL
     * Martin has been working on getting the NMC WG accepted in the OGF. It is not yet clear if the June meeting will be a BOF or an actual WG meeting. Martin also agreed to move the topology schema into a more public svn so it could be used as a basis for the gLS work Jason is doing. (If Martin wants a new svn created, Jeff will create it for him.
   # Ga Tech
   # ESnet
     * Joe has been working on the LHC BCP document. There will be a meeting Thursday to discuss that document.
   # Internet2
     * Jason has been working on the gLS design and is awaiting comments. He has also been working on rpm's for webadmin as well as deployment instructions for perfSONAR-BUOY. Jason also has been directing the perfSONAR protocol documentation group.
     * Jeff has been preparing for a CENIC presentation on perfSONAR as well as preparing for the LHC T2/T3 meeting at BNL.
   # SLAC
 # pS-PS
   * Anything new in the infrastructure portions?
 # Code directory hierarchy refactoring - status update (maxim)
   * Still open for more review. After a long discussion, it was decided that the current structure is more or less reasonable. However, some additional documentation (perhaps just top level README files) needs to be provided for new developers to explain the organizational hierarchy.
 # Project Hosting - (jason)
   * So far a positive experience using google code. The wiki is managed via svn making off-line editing more convenient.
 # RRD - communicate resolution (and other data storage specifics)
   * We discussed the following solution:
     * for req/resp data sampling information should be in parameters of metadata (the one with the eventType=utilization)
   * How are storage parameters discovered?
     * Can register md to the LS.
     * can explode md descriptions by having a md per parameter permutation
     * can specify individual parameters more than once inside as well.
     * only completely equivalent event types can live in a single md
   * What are the next steps? (Example implementation? Example messages for Roman - then convince pS-dev?)
     * Jason will create message examples with Brian. If he can easily test them in the implementation he will. As messages are available we will also share them with Roman to get his opinion (although we don't expect Roman will be willing to consider this until after the June MDM release).
 # MDM release
   * web admin

== Last Updated ==

$Id$

