=  September 2 2008 Conference Call =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees: Joe, Jason, Aaron, Maxim, Jeff, Rich, Jared, Brian
 # Team Updates
   # Internet2
     * Jason:
       * ISO/gLS development. API hardening.
       * New service registration formats for DCN work (Will send out)
       * Meeting with Martin/Bobby Brown (Vandy) to do REDDInet SC demo featuring pS
       * WIKI mostly moved
       * Will be doing gLS interoperability testing with MDM-LS
     * Aaron:
       * ISO/pingER UI
       * WebAdmin authentication issues (cacti pain)
       * OWAMP RC out (forgot to mention on the call)
     * Jeff:
       * AA work to prepare for joint DICE CP/pS meeting
       * pS-B (owamp star config)
       * preparing ps-dev agenda
     * Rich:
       * BCP has moved to the google-code wiki
       * Rich will be talking with Ken Bloom/CMS T2 community about installing pS tools and the NPToolkit ISO.
   # IU
   # UDEL
   # Ga Tech
   # ESnet
     * Joe:
       * pingER now running on ESnet owamp hosts. Would like better configuration file solutions. Perhaps something as easy as 'include' file syntax for all config files. (* Will attempt to make time to discuss during ps-dev next week.*)
     * Brian:
       * Issues with perl/pingER logging too much information to the console in error states. (Maxim will look into it.)
       * PAM CFP came out today. (Brian will bring a few ideas to the meeting next week for us all to discuss.)
   # SLAC
     * Jarad:
       * Nothing to update, but will be at the meeting next week.
   # FNAL
   # MCNC
 # Project organization (Maxim sql scripts etc question)
   # Source code locations
   # Distribution locations
   * Generally we would like a single location for these things. We do need to come up with a good way to reference that one location from the other various places where we have an expected presents. For example, we will try and maintain 'svn externals' in the google-code svn to make it easier to get to our code for users that attempt to access it from google. Even more important will be the distribution locations since we probably want to put it on the ps-ps site, but have references to it from the www.perfsonar.net and the google-code, and the cpan sites.
 # Wiki Migration
   * Mostly complete. Everyone knows what they need to complete, and there are only a handful of things left.
 # GLIF Demo Update (Aaron/Jeff)
   * 3 sites have services *mostly* working. (We won't be able to tell until we know if the circuit itself is working...) 1 site will likely never get it working, and we will need to work around it.
 # ISO status
   * Release needs to wait until after MDM-LS interoperability testing. New release dates are: Beta out Sept 5, final release out Sept 17.
   * As mentioned above, pingER agent needs to deal better with error conditions so the console is not unusable. (i.e. network unreachable.)
   * Maxim brought up some Virtual-NOC software that they intend to work on to provide issue-tracking over top of pS monitoring and control-plane efforts. (jwb - it would be good to track this progress and harmonize efforts as much as possible.)
 # Papers- PAM CFP
   * As mentioned above, we will discuss Paper ideas next week in AA.
 # Central configuration service
   * Need to talk about how to harmonize service configuration files in functionality and syntax. And how that effects centralized configuration. Will attempt to make time for this next week as well.
 # Next meeting will in Ann Arbor at the Internet2 offices on Sept 8, 8:30 am

== When ==

 September 2 2008 - 12:00 EDT

== Where ==

GDS Dialing Directions:
 # Register with a GDS-enabled Gatekeeper.  To borrow space see: http://commons.internet2.edu/reggate.html
 # Make sure you are connecting at 384 kbps.
 # Dial 001189 130 0505 (no spaces)

Dialing Directions:
To join the call, do one of the following:
 * Dial +1-734-615-7474 (NON-US/CA USERS MUST USE THIS NUMBER - SYSTEM WILL NOT CALL OUT)
 * Dial +1-866-411-0013 (toll free US/Canada Only)
 * Dial +1-800-392-6130 (alternate toll free US/Canada Only)
 * Enter access code 0145258

== Last Updated ==

$Id: 20080818Video.wiki 135 2008-08-18 23:52:18Z boote@internet2.edu $