=  July 20 2008 Meeting =

== Where ==

Summer Joint Techs 2008, Lincoln NE

== When ==

 July 20, 2008  - 1 to 5 Central

== Attendees ==

 # Maxim (FNAL)
 # Jason (Internet2)
 # Aaron (Internet2)
 # Eric (Internet2)
 # Jeff (Internet2)
 # Martin (UDel)
 # Joe (ESnet)
 # Brian (ESnet)
 # Carla Hunt (MCNC)
 # Drew (Broadband Census)
 # Rich (Internet2)
 # Mike VanNorman (UCLA)

== Agenda/Minutes ==

Aaron,Maxim,Jason,Eric,Drew Clark (BroadbandCensus.com),Brian T, Mike VanNorman, Carla Hunt, Joe Metzger, Rich

Code restructure:
    Break it up in layers (http vs soap vs xml).
    Aaron will look at restructuring current daemon and figure out the
        pieces.
Wiki move:
    We will be moving from Confluence to google code wiki.
    Jason will move things as he can.

Dash-board connectivity matrix (RSS FEEDS):

Knoppix vs LiveCD:
    Aaron will talk with Tom Throckmorton (MCNC) to explore with Rich.

Configuration Services:
    Everyone thinks it is a good idea.
    - merge
    * community configurations
    * local configurations

Topo V3 for gLS/hLS. - Yes - do it. JEFF ACTION - raise it with Maciej.

Admin
    Switch to an every other week for team updates, and interim weeks for
    specific topics. (Data channel, AA, etc...)

Data Channel
    Need to get a small group applied to working on this issue.
    Charge: present a couple of alternatives and analysis to back up
        the recommendation.

Papers
    Happy-hour discussion: We should start putting a paper together. A
    full architecture paper as well as a more deployment/data paper.
    1st place - UDel tech report, also prepare for a journal entry.
    If a reasonable conference comes up in the process we should do
    it. *talk with Martin on this*


== Last Updated ==

$Id$