=  September 29, 2008 Conference Call 2:30 pm EDT =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees: 
 # Team Updates
   # Internet2
   # IU
   # UDEL
   # Ga Tech
   # ESnet
   # SLAC
   # FNAL
   # MCNC
 # ISO - Naming

[http://perfsonar-ps.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/perfnodelabel.png CD Cover Image]

 # ISO - Status (Outstanding bugs, etc)
 # Pam paper
   # Editing status
   # Data status
 # GLIF Demo Update (Aaron/Jeff)
 # Central configuration service
   * Need to talk about how to harmonize service configuration files in functionality and syntax. And how that effects centralized configuration.(likely won't have time for this, but I'm keeping it on the agenda as very high priority for the *next* version).

 # Next meeting will Oct 6, 2:30 pm Eastern Time

== Where ==

Number of sites: 10
Mode: Voice Switched

Phone Ports: 10
Phone Bridge Information: (Scheduled through December 2008 due to scheduling limitations.)
Dial +1-614-247-6427
At the prompt, enter the Conference ID: 9746 followed by the pound (#) key.

GDS Dialing Directions:
 # Register with a GDS-enabled Gatekeeper.  To borrow space see: http://commons.internet2.edu/reggate.html
 # Make sure you are connecting at 384 kbps.
 # Dial 001189 783 9746 (no spaces)

IP Dialing Directions
 # Dial 192.148.244.143.
 # Enable FAR END camera control.
 # DOWN ARROW until you highlight Internet2 9746
 # Use the RIGHT ARROW to enter that conference.
 # Do not forget to disable the FAR END camera control.

== Last Updated ==

$Id: 20080818Video.wiki 135 2008-08-18 23:52:18Z boote@internet2.edu $