=  March 31 2008 Conference Call =

== Where ==

Starting Time: Jan 22, 2007 at 2:30 PM US/Eastern
Occurs: Every Monday from Jan 22, 2007 to Jan 16, 2012
Duration: 1 hour

To join the call, do one of the following:
  a. Dial +1-734-615-7474 (NON-US/CA USERS MUST USE THIS NUMBER - SYSTEM WILL NOT CALL OUT), +1-866-411-0013 (toll free US/Canada Only) or
+1-800-392-6130 (alternate toll free US/Canada Only) and enter access code 0188065, or
  b. To have the system call you, click here:https://edial.internet2.edu/call/0188065;

== When ==

 March 31 2008 - 2:30 EDT

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees: Jason, Yee, Jared, Chris, Luke, Martin, Aaron, Jeff, Joe
 # Team Updates
   # ESnet
     * Brian: Traveling today. Working on CGI backend to ESnet SNMP display interface.
     * Joe: Joe is interested in getting a pingER installation setup at CERN for upcoming service trials. He would like have data to show at the June LHCOPN meeting. Joe has also been working on creating some netinfo web pages that interact with the backend perfSONAR services. Yee volunteered to help on the pingER effort at CERN.
   # Internet2
     * Jason: Working on the web-admin client for perfSONAR-BUOY. It is working now, the next step is to separate the look-n-feel functionality to make it easier to incorporate into the MDM release. Jason has also been working on a straw-man proposal for how schema/protocol/service documentation can work going forward.
     * Aaron: Working on a test harness for releases. Also working on configuring a 'yum' repository for pS-PS releases. This will works in combinations with the DAG respositories (for things like sleepycat and perl modules, and rrdtool).
     * Jeff: Has been on vacation, but will be putting out a new release of bwctl and working on the backend of pS-B. He is also preparing for the pS-dev and JRA-1 meeting in Zagreb next week. Jeff is still working on the licensing and trademark issues, but will update when more information is available.
   # SLAC
     * Yee has not been working on pS-PS lately, but will be helping with the CERN deployment.
     * Jared is planning to make a 0.09 release of the pingER services available so that Aaron can upload a new version of services to CPAN.
   # IU
     * Luke reports that IU has made a new set of higher resolution RRD files available for the SNMP-MA service. Jason and Luke will work together on upgrading the current SNMP service to support the new data.
     * Chris and Aaron will work together to make the TL1 libraries and modifications they are working on available via the pS-PS svn.
   # FNAL
     * Maxim: On spring break.
   # UDEL
     * Martin reports that Karthic is working on extending the radix tree algorthm he has worked on to IPv6 address space. Also, he has sent the V4 version to Roman. He will start working with Jason on this as well. Karthic is also working on some network topology implementations. Martin will be working on some dLS specification updates in time for the pS-dev meeting in Zagreb.
 # pS-PS 0.09 Release
   * Are we ready?
     * Jared will let Aaron know when the pingER service is ready. Aaron will update the latest at that time.
   * Publicity?
     * After the CPAN update, Jeff will get the update posted on the pS-PS website and send out a notice to at least the pS-dev email list.
 # SVN Move
   * Are we ready (after release)?
   * Set a date and time: April XX 2008
 # Additional Topics...
 # CodeHause
   * Jeff will brief us on the discussions held in AA two weeks ago.
   * See the wiki
   * Internet2 is interested in at least hosting some of the material in-house due to political issues. However, the bug-tracking project management and software distribution mechanisms could easily be split off. (The main portions of interest for keeping in-house are the 'public project' web pages as well as the svn service.
 # Licensing/Trademark
   * Jeff will brief us on the discussions held in AA two weeks ago.
 # See above.
 # MDM release update
   * What remains to be done?
     # PingER
       * 0.09 release out this week.
     # pSB
       * 0.09 release out this week.
       * Documentation (will look like PingER)
       * WebAdmin (cleanups still needed, it functions fine, needs look and feel of Java version?
       * Functional testing things (similar to PingER)?
     # Packages for MDM?
 # RPM Packages
   * How should the RPMs be packaged?
     * Install in default location? Install in /opt?
     * One RPM per perl module vs. One RPM per service
     * pS-PS binary RPMs using the thing maxim found?
   * How should the RPMs be distributed?
     * YUM repository?
 # pS-PS
   * Anything new in the infrastructure portions?
 # pS-PS and relationship to firewalls/filtering By way of Eric and Ken K.
   * Reasons why we run on upper ports (8080 etc.)
     * Historic (tomcat), but we are just HTTP traffic...
   * Could (should) we run on 80?
     * Affect layout of other installed services
   * How does this affect firewall/security setups?
     * Are we (should we be) doing anything about this during installation?
 # Next call will be April 7, 2:30 EDT.

== Last Updated ==

$Id$

