=  August 25 2008 Conference Call =

== When ==

 August 25 2008 - 2:30 EDT

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees: Brian, Jason, Bobby Brown (Vandy), Martin, Aaron, Joe, Maxim, Jeff
 # Issue specific meeting: ISO Testing

=== Current ISO status ===

 * Aaron: Better configuration scripts, RAM disk issues handled, LS-reg daemon checks for 'live' processes, j-owping beta added, pS updates so services more unified (all determine accesspoint from same place now instead of being tool specific), state saves are very different - works for whole 'system' instead of being specific to each tool.
 * Jason: Updates for gLS api, fixes for gLS performance issues, modifications for pS-B. Will be working on more pS-B changes and GUI's for showing latency/throughput together.
 * Jeff: Modifications to lower-level owamp to support sender-side initiated tests for the star-config.
Jason and Jeff are not ready for code-freeze yet on pS-B. All other portions are now frozen, but pS-B development will continue for a couple of more days. Anything that is not complete this week will not make it in.
=== gLS deployments ===
Internet2 will have a deployment on ndb1.internet2.edu in the next week. ESnet already has a temporary gLS deployment ready (although it is expected that it will need to move in October). Internet2 will be looking for a second location. Additionally, Jeff and Jason are working with Dante to ensure a compatible gLS instance will be installed somewhere in Europe in the next month.

=== ISO testing ===

Plan is to test in three phases:
 # Our closest friends: Brian, Warren
 # Our closest friends who know little about pS and the ISO: Jon D? (ESnet), IU, Danno (Internet2)
 # Friendly intended customers: Sean McKee, CalTech, CERN...

=== Logistics ===
 # Next meeting will be Sept 2, 2:30 EST

== Where ==

Number of sites: 10
Mode: Voice Switched

Phone Ports: 10
Phone Bridge Information: (Scheduled through December 2008 due to scheduling limitations.)
Dial +1-614-247-6427
At the prompt, enter the Conference ID: 9746 followed by the pound (#) key.

GDS Dialing Directions:
 # Register with a GDS-enabled Gatekeeper.  To borrow space see: http://commons.internet2.edu/reggate.html
 # Make sure you are connecting at 384 kbps.
 # Dial 001189 783 9746 (no spaces)

IP Dialing Directions
 # Dial 192.148.244.143.
 # Enable FAR END camera control.
 # DOWN ARROW until you highlight Internet2 9746
 # Use the RIGHT ARROW to enter that conference.
 # Do not forget to disable the FAR END camera control.

== Last Updated ==

$Id$