=  March 10 2008 Conference Call =

== Where ==

Starting Time: Jan 22, 2007 at 2:30 PM US/Eastern
Occurs: Every Monday from Jan 22, 2007 to Jan 16, 2012
Duration: 1 hour

To join the call, do one of the following:
  a. Dial +1-734-615-7474 (NON-US/CA USERS MUST USE THIS NUMBER - SYSTEM WILL NOT CALL OUT), +1-866-411-0013 (toll free US/Canada Only) or
+1-800-392-6130 (alternate toll free US/Canada Only) and enter access code 0188065, or
  b. To have the system call you, click here:https://edial.internet2.edu/call/0188065;

== When ==

 March 10 2008 - 2:30 EDT

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees: Jason, Aaron, Jeff, John, Jared, Brian, Maxim
 # Team Updates
   # FNAL
     * Maxim has been testing the pingER MA/MP. Specifically creating test cases for mal-formed requests. He still has some cleanup to remove some old tests. He will then be working with Jared on packaging for the 0.8 release.
   # UDel
   # ESnet
     * Brian has a test harness that works, but is not yet flexible enough to be used to test the Java code. He will be refactoring the code some, to do that. Brian also has plans to add netlogger profiling into the pS-PS code.
   # Internet2
     * Jason has been working on enhancements to the LS service in support of DCN. (API for interacting with the LS, and a web-cgi based GUI for administration.) He has also worked on performance/bug fixes and testing for LS/perfSONARBUOY/SNMP MA. He is working on packaging for those services this week, and will be working on protocol documentation starting next week.
     * Aaron has been working primarily on testing and packaging as well as a topology sharing agent for DCN. Aaron outlined how the topology agent works and how the global topology is expected to propagate.
     * Jeff has worked on the development of the LHC Tier2 BCP recommendation that is being presented at the LHCOPN meeting today/tomorrow. Also, he has pushed the licensing discussion up through Internet2 management. Additionally, along these lines Dante has let us know that they are considering trademarking perfSONAR in the EU. There was much discussion about what this might mean - bottom line is that Jeff and Eric will be asking Internet2 management (and possibly lawyers - ugh) for advise.
   # SLAC
     * Jared has been working on debugging, packaging and testing for the upcoming release. Specifically some API tests. The bottom line is that Jared and Maxim plan to be ready for a new CPAN release tonight.
   # IU
     * John has an APAN (IIU?) visitor coming soon, and would like to arrange for a call with a few people to update the visitor on perfSONAR. John will contact Jeff to arrange something.
 # Code Storage/Licensing
   * Maxim has pointed everyone to 'code.google.com' as a repository where we could store releases as well as host things like blogs, bug tracking, wiki, and even svn. Similar to sourceforge.
     * Upsides - All in one location
     * Downsides - Licensing still an issue. No integrated CPAN like installation
   * Much discussion about hosting environments and about code distribution mechanisms. The bottom line is that we need more in depth facts to make a decision. Jason, Aaron, Maxim will do a comparison of a couple of open-source hosting environments and make a recommendation to the group.
 # Next Release
   * Aiming for TONIGHT
   * Included items
     * SNMP MA
     * LS
     * perfSONARBOUY MA
     * PingER MA/MP
     * L2 Status MA
     * Topology Service
     * CircuitStatus MA
     * Others?
 # pS-PS
   * Anything new in the infrastructure portions?
     * Jason plans to add some additional pieces into an LS registration API. Also, additional work needs to be done in profiling to determine if the file-concatenation method of building response messages needs to be reintegrated into the current code base.
   * Merge status
     * Aaron plans to move the current trunk to a new branch, and move the 'merge' branch to trunk after the 0.8 release is complete.
 # Standards docs
   * Stalled pending release, will be resumed within the week and strawman prepared by Zagreb Meeting.
 # Zagreb Meeting
   * Attending in person:
     * Jeff
     * Martin
     * Joe
   * Attending remote:
     * Jason
     * Aaron
     * Eric
   * Changes to agenda?
     * Please send any additional topics to Jeff - as well as any requests for specific scheduling.
 # Internet2 Spring Member Meeting (April 21 - 23)
   * Topics of Discussion?
   * Potential Demos?
 # Google SOC 2008
   * See our ideas here: https://wiki.internet2.edu/confluence/display/GSoC/Ideas-2008
   * Suggestions?
 # Next call will be March 17, 2:30 EST

== Last Updated ==

$Id$

