=  October 27, 2008 Conference Call 2:30 pm EDT =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees:
 # Team Updates
   # Internet2
   # IU
   # UDEL
   # Ga Tech
   # ESnet
   # SLAC
   # FNAL
   # MCNC
 # SC status
   * New Weathermap proposal
     * Still very basic: http://dc211.internet2.edu/SC08/
     * Will hide/show DCN circuits via OSCARS MA
     * Will use utilization from SNMP MA
       * Interest in other metrics?
 # Central configuration service
   * Need to talk about how to harmonize service configuration files in functionality and syntax. And how that effects centralized configuration.
     * *_JZ:_* We keep putting this off, but I would like to put it off a little more since this is a non-trivial problem, and the development/thinking cycles will be pretty sparse until after November.
 # Deployment Status Listings
   * How do we decide what goes in the list? Everything? Do we attempt to validate?
     * Joe will send out comments from Jason Lee to start this discussion.
 # ISO - Functional Specification
   * Attempt to make sure functionality is clear from a user perspective, and to ensure that the disc is useful from a diagnostic perspective as well as a measurement-point perspective.
 # Discussion of middle-term goals
   * Release management
   * It has been proposed that after SC, we shore up a very few pieces of missing functionality, and then concentrate on hardening and optimizing the software we have.
   * If that is the general sentiment, perhaps we can come up with the specific short list of functionality we want to deal with - and come up with ideas on what reasonable processes we can go through to harden/optimize.
 # Next meeting will Nov 3, 2:30 pm Eastern Time

== Where ==

Number of sites: 10
Mode: Voice Switched

Phone Ports: 10
Phone Bridge Information: (Scheduled through December 2008 due to scheduling limitations.)
Dial +1-614-247-6427
At the prompt, enter the Conference ID: 9746 followed by the pound (#) key.

GDS Dialing Directions:
 # Register with a GDS-enabled Gatekeeper.  To borrow space see: http://commons.internet2.edu/reggate.html
 # Make sure you are connecting at 384 kbps.
 # Dial 001189 783 9746 (no spaces)

IP Dialing Directions
 # Dial 192.148.244.143.
 # Enable FAR END camera control.
 # DOWN ARROW until you highlight Internet2 9746
 # Use the RIGHT ARROW to enter that conference.
 # Do not forget to disable the FAR END camera control.

== Last Updated ==

$Id$