=  February 04 2008 Conference Call =

== Where ==

Starting Time: Jan 22, 2007 at 2:30 PM US/Eastern
Occurs: Every Monday from Jan 22, 2007 to Jan 16, 2012
Duration: 1 hour

To join the call, do one of the following:
  a. Dial +1-734-615-7474 (NON-US/CA USERS MUST USE THIS NUMBER - SYSTEM WILL NOT CALL OUT), +1-866-411-0013 (toll free US/Canada Only) or
+1-800-392-6130 (alternate toll free US/Canada Only) and enter access code 0188065, or
  b. To have the system call you, click here:https://edial.internet2.edu/call/0188065;

== When ==

 February 04 2008 - 2:30 EDT

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees: Jared, Yee, Brian, Martin, Chris
 # Team Updates
   # Internet2
     * Jason: Giving a NPW in Norman OK first part of this week. Past Week: Addressed some performance issues in SNMP MA by implementing opaque keys that allow a faster lookup. Starting to address performance issues in LS (waiting for feedback on how to proceed) regarding slow registration. Bugfixes in SNMP MA/LS. Additional documentation updates to protocol docs (LS/MA) and service docs (LS/SNMP MA), still awaiting feedback from everyone. Will need to add more detailed 'service steps' (i.e. what are the expected outcomes for specific input sequences) and should include flow charts etc. Completed early work on perfSONARBOUY MA. Changes will be likely after first release of BWCTL. Expected packaging and release into CPAN late next week.
     * Aaron: Has been working with Brian with any issues he's had. Also been looking at handling metadata chaining and filter chaining in the daemon by passing two arrays, one containing the metadata chain and the other containing the set of filters. Looking in to outputting to a temporary file since that was able to improve the performance in Jason's previous release, and should be easy to try.
   # SLAC
     * There will be a (beta?) PingER release soon (hopefully within the week). Jared has been updating the test suite to handle API changes that have occurred.
   # IU
     * Release candidate bwctl deployed on I2 observatory. Some problems, but Jeff is working on them and should be releasing a new RC in the near future. On the E2EMon front, the IN2P3 link no longer goes over HOPI, and there's been some discussion as to where updates need to occur when major topology changes occur
   # UDEL
     * Martin and Karthik have been working on the summarization problem. Karthik thinks they're close, but Martin is not so sure. Karthik has some scripts to use graphviz to visualize the summarized radix tree. Ongoing discussions with Maciej and Jason as to how the summarization code will be added to the dLS software
   # ESnet
     * The beta SNMP MA is now the default MA in use by ESnet. It's currently stable, but a bit slow.
   # SVN issues
     * Merging branches (when? what?)
       * It was decided that after the PingER release, we'll begin the merge process. Thus, we should start sometime next week barring any unforseen events
 # Testing
   * test suite
     * Brian and Aaron were both interested in creating a test suite. The general idea was to create a set of requests for each service and have a suite that would instantiate each service with some test data, run each request and validate the response. Brian would like to have a call in the near future to discuss the
 # Performance Issues
   * LS/(TS?)
     * Jason is currently exploring ways to speed up the LS for registrations, particularly for the ESnet installation. Reason for slowness: perform a query before each insert to ensure no duplication of items. Possible Solution: Allow duplicates, but let the periodic 'reaper' clean them out [downside: some queries will produce duplicate results from time to time]. Other issues include management of transactions (not mixing reading and writing operations in the same transactions), logging corrections. Issues may effect other services that use the XMLDB such as the TS.
   * SNMP MA/(Other MAs?)
     * Jason has implemented fast opaque keys to use in the SNMP MA to allow a much faster conversion of key to data. The new keys are calculated by MD5 fingerprint and stored in lookups, avoiding an expensive XPath. Other MA services may wish to implement this in time.
 # Documentation
   * Product docs (pingER doc status, pSB status)
     * Yee has some PingER documents in the merge branch that he'd like some feedback on.
 # pS-PS developers meeting
   * Washington DC end of April (Around SMM time, 21st-23rd)
     * Jason can secure conference facilities at the Internet2 office before or after the meeting. Could also secure space at the meeting.

== Last Updated ==

$Id$

