=  April 14 2008 Conference Call =

== Where ==

Starting Time: Jan 22, 2007 at 2:30 PM US/Eastern
Occurs: Every Monday from Jan 22, 2007 to Jan 16, 2012
Duration: 1 hour

To join the call, do one of the following:
  a. Dial +1-734-615-7474 (NON-US/CA USERS MUST USE THIS NUMBER - SYSTEM WILL NOT CALL OUT), +1-866-411-0013 (toll free US/Canada Only) or
+1-800-392-6130 (alternate toll free US/Canada Only) and enter access code 0188065, or
  b. To have the system call you, click here:https://edial.internet2.edu/call/0188065;

== When ==

 April 14 2008 - 2:30 EDT

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees: Maxim, Joe, Brian, Aaron, Jason, Jeff, Matt
 # Team Updates
  # SLAC
  # IU
  # FNAL
    * Maxim: Tested the pingER-pS on 'fresh' Linux installs to determine full dependencies required and make modifications to pS-PS to allow statically linking all dependencies in. This allows for very easy deployment. Worked on a 'super-mp' to allow centralized scheduling of pingER measurements.
  # UDEL
  # Ga Tech
  # ESnet
    * Joe: Working on a web-GUI interface to pS data. Had a problem due to operator relationships for time selection (Java doesn't support gte/lte). Brian: Looking at what is needed for netlogger instrumentation of services. Asked for a call later in the week to discuss (17:00 EDT, Tuesday).
  # Internet2
    * Aaron: 0.09 CPAN release happened. Still need a pingER-pS RPM. 
    * Jason: Prepared documentation proposal for protocol/schema/service breakdown. perfSONAR-BUOY development. Preparing demos for SMM. Jeff: Proposed a rough schedule for milestones to have pS-PS software ready for T2/T3 deployments. Basically: Sketched out plan in time for BNL meeting May 14, Single 'test' deployment for LHCOPN @ CERN June 16, Knoppix disks ready for Jt Techs July 20.
 # Update from pS-dev/JRA-1 meeting @ Zagreb (jb/jm/ms):
   * protocol moving to OGF
     * Advantage: standards body process and acceptance
     * Disadvantage: control
   * transformation service (for now only implementing transparent-proxy style)
   * echo message extensions
     * not really needed for JRA-1 SD effort. will use: watch-dog process and syslog
   * EU collegues are VERY focused on finishing deliverables
     * (all development with them will likly be focused on short term deliverables for the next while)
   * Wiki will be split so we can have one more dedicated to high-level perfSONAR without mixing up development details and specific JRA-1 deliverables and 'service desk' content.
   * EU collegues are very concnerned about showing 'value' from pS right now as they argue for GN3 funding, and GN4 brainstorming/requirements activities.  There was surprise that the perl snmp did not perform much better than java.
   * There is concern that pS is not being well accepted by NOC's. Joe suggests this is due to visualizations not being relevant for them. There was much discussion about how to incorporate 'alarms'.
 # GSoC pS projects status
   * update on which pS related projects likely to be funded (jz)
 # pS-PS
   * 0.09 release complete
     * Jeff will send announcement this week when web-pages are complete
   * Mutators/Accessors (mg/ab) (next time)
   * Packaging Issues (jb)
     * How 'bundled' should we be?
   * Anything new in the infrastructure portions?
 # Performance Testing
   * pingER service testing?
   * instrumentation of services
     * A call was planned for tuesday at 17:00 EDT.
 # Follow up on LHC-OPN support, requirements, priorities
   * Joe would like more work on the BCP document in preparation for the HENP-SIG at the SMM.
 # Next call will be April 28, 2:30 EDT

== Last Updated ==

$Id$

