=  November 3, 2008 Conference Call 2:30 pm EDT =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees:Rich, Aaron, Joe, Brian, Maxim, Jeff, John
 # Team Updates
   # Internet2
        * Aaron: MA for tl1 alarms working to monitor SCinet WAN gear. BWC entry with perfSONAR monitoring integrated. (CPU utilization, Network device values, Memory usage - lots of things that can be retrieved from /proc).
        * Rich: LHC USATLAS about half-way deployed. Sites need better documentation on how to configure.
        * Jeff: SCinet measurement deployments, BWC entry, SC signs/handouts w/Jason.
        * Jason(As reported by Jeff): gLS fixes, SC deployments, SC signs/handouts.
   # IU
        * John: Has 10g in LA. Working on nagios for SCinet monitoring. For Transpac: LOSA and Tokyo perfSONAR deployments are active.
   # UDEL
   # Ga Tech
   # ESnet
        * Brian: Installed pingER MA on 10 owamp boxes. Refuse to register with hLSs.(Reported in Issue tracker, Jason is testing some fixes he believes will address the problem.) LOI - for perfSONAR proposal to SCiDAC.
        * Joe: Working on owamp,bwctl deployments. Can have some available for SC.
   # SLAC
   # FNAL
        * Maxim: Vacation... Focused on supporting hostname/type parameters for pingER queries and handling errors. Discussion of landmarks files configuration options. (size of pings, etc...) Interest in more functionality from the weathermap (additional metrics etc).
   # MCNC
 # SC status
   * New Weathermap proposal
     * Still very basic: http://dc211.internet2.edu/SC08/
     * Will hide/show DCN circuits via OSCARS MA
     * Will use utilization from SNMP MA
       * Interest in other metrics?
   # *General interest, especially on how this could be used to show additional metrics or present the data over other topologies. Jason, please apprise the group if any further developments.*
 # Central configuration service
   * Need to talk about how to harmonize service configuration files in functionality and syntax. And how that effects centralized configuration.
     * *_JZ:_* We keep putting this off, but I would like to put it off a little more since this is a non-trivial problem, and the development/thinking cycles will be pretty sparse until after November.
   # *Postponed until December, but this will be one of the only new development things we will take on through the first quarter of next year so we can focus on hardening existing services.*
 # Deployment Status Listings
   * How do we decide what goes in the list? Everything? Do we attempt to validate?
     * Joe will send out comments from Jason Lee to start this discussion.
   # *Lots of discussion. General issues seem to be:*
     # *showing a complete list of all registered services along with quick-view editing makes it look like many things don't work. Not good for a technical appraisal of perfSONAR.*
     # *No EU services are registering, so this is not as inclusive as it needs to be for PR efforts.*
   # *Suggestions:*
     # *Short term: Disable the quick view of data an only use as a PR view.*
     # *Short term: See about getting more EU services in the list some how, or provide a link to 'pre-gLS' deployments via the EU smoke-ping page*
     # *Medium term: Provide a vetted list of services with quick data views available*
     # *Medium term: Provide links to popular GUIs*
 # ISO - Functional Specification
   * Attempt to make sure functionality is clear from a user perspective, and to ensure that the disc is useful from a diagnostic perspective as well as a measurement-point perspective.
   # *Jeff, Aaron and Rich will provide a proposal for this in December.*
 # Discussion of middle-term goals
   * Release management
   * It has been proposed that after SC, we shore up a very few pieces of missing functionality, and then concentrate on hardening and optimizing the software we have.
   * If that is the general sentiment, perhaps we can come up with the specific short list of functionality we want to deal with - and come up with ideas on what reasonable processes we can go through to harden/optimize.
 # Additional Topics:
   # *Maxim asked that those involved in the CHEP paper comment on the abstract in the next week.*
   # *Discussion of UDP performance issues with the LHC recommended systems and how to keep kernel modules up to date. For the immediate issue: Brian/Joe will send the driver used on the KOI hosts to Rich. Rich will find the latest driver and compile that into the kernel and give it to Brian/Joe to try out. For the more general question, I'm going to put this on the agenda for the next meeting.*
 # Next meeting will be Dec 1, 2:30 pm Eastern Time

== Where ==

Number of sites: 10
Mode: Voice Switched

Phone Ports: 10
Phone Bridge Information: (Scheduled through December 2008 due to scheduling limitations.)
Dial +1-614-247-6427
At the prompt, enter the Conference ID: 9746 followed by the pound (#) key.

GDS Dialing Directions:
 # Register with a GDS-enabled Gatekeeper.  To borrow space see: http://commons.internet2.edu/reggate.html
 # Make sure you are connecting at 384 kbps.
 # Dial 001189 783 9746 (no spaces)

IP Dialing Directions
 # Dial 192.148.244.143.
 # Enable FAR END camera control.
 # DOWN ARROW until you highlight Internet2 9746
 # Use the RIGHT ARROW to enter that conference.
 # Do not forget to disable the FAR END camera control.

== Last Updated ==

$Id$