=  August 11 2008 Conference Call =

== Where ==

Number of sites: 10
Mode: Voice Switched

Phone Ports: 10
Phone Bridge Information: (Scheduled through December 2008 due to scheduling limitations.)
Dial +1-614-247-6427
At the prompt, enter the Conference ID: 9746 followed by the pound (#) key.

GDS Dialing Directions:
 # Register with a GDS-enabled Gatekeeper.  To borrow space see: http://commons.internet2.edu/reggate.html
 # Make sure you are connecting at 384 kbps.
 # Dial 001189 783 9746 (no spaces)

IP Dialing Directions
 # Dial 192.148.244.143.
 # Enable FAR END camera control.
 # DOWN ARROW until you highlight Internet2 9746
 # Use the RIGHT ARROW to enter that conference.
 # Do not forget to disable the FAR END camera control.

== When ==

 August 11 2008 - 2:30 EDT

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees:
 # Team Updates
   # Internet2
   # IU
   # UDEL
   # Ga Tech
   # ESnet 
   # SLAC
   # FNAL
   # MCNC
 # Wiki Migration
 # LHC Disk
   * Hardening
     * PingER
       * Warning handling
     * hLS
       * Database startup size (DB_CONFIG issues)
     * SNMP MA
       * Better startup/test procedures on cacti integration
       * cricket/mrtg inclusion
     * perfSONAR-BUOY
       * OWAMP Collection Agent
       * Conversion into pS space of collection agents
       * MA Database handling
       * Configuration
   * SOC Improvement roll in (over next month or two)
   * Community Involvement (Testing by Jon Dugan/Brian/MCNC/GT?)
   * Extensions
   * SVN for Source Code
 # GLIF Demo Update (Aaron/Jeff)
   * Status
 # FMM/SC08 Demo Planning
   * What should/could we do?
     * Use the Disks/gLS
     * New GUIs (Fusion/addl web things)
     * Incorporate *all* services; total package of e2e monitoring (potential use case is UMich -> Merit -> Internet2 Network -> SOX -> GT)
   * Individuals wanting to be involved
   * Deadlines
 # Next meeting will be August 18, 2008

== Last Updated ==

$Id$