=  October 20, 2008 Conference Call 2:30 pm EDT =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees: Jason, Joe, Rich, Aaron, Jeff, Maxim.
 # Team Updates
   # Internet2
    * Jason: Support role for FMM demos, Managing bugs for Disk, Work with Brian on pingER instances on ESnet (and other services too). Bug fixes setup for LS/SNMP MA.
    * Aaron: Working w/ DCN to fix path finder things. Working on pS pathfinder. Fixes for knoppix toolkit. Looking at different approaches to automate ISO release rolling. For a stop-gap, much of toolkit is now in svn.
    * Jeff: FMM Performance Update/ perfSONAR BOF
   # IU
   # UDEL
   # Ga Tech
   # ESnet
    * Brian: pingER deployments, working on other deployments and hit lots of hardware related snags.
    * Joe: LHCOPN meeting - MDM - 3 signed MOU agreements, 2 boxes - 1 sun, 1 linux. 14 week deployment cycle. 1 day of training, site survey, planned to extensive detail! EGEE monitoring/ alarming from DFN looking at perfSONAR. Small sub-group will look at this proposal (alarms based on 'interesting data').
   # SLAC
   # FNAL
   # MCNC
 # LHC ISOs
   * Status (outstanding bugs? good/bad experiences?)
   * Next steps
 # Required attributes in service requests
   * See http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=61 for context.
   * General question, how should metadata matching work?
 # Central configuration service
   * Need to talk about how to harmonize service configuration files in functionality and syntax. And how that effects centralized configuration.
 # SC plans
   * SCinet Monitoring/ Internet2 Booth/ What else?
 # Deployment Status Listings
   * How do we decide what goes in the list? Everything? Do we attempt to validate?
 # Next meeting will Oct 27, 2:30 pm Eastern Time

== Where ==

Number of sites: 10
Mode: Voice Switched

Phone Ports: 10
Phone Bridge Information: (Scheduled through December 2008 due to scheduling limitations.)
Dial +1-614-247-6427
At the prompt, enter the Conference ID: 9746 followed by the pound (#) key.

GDS Dialing Directions:
 # Register with a GDS-enabled Gatekeeper.  To borrow space see: http://commons.internet2.edu/reggate.html
 # Make sure you are connecting at 384 kbps.
 # Dial 001189 783 9746 (no spaces)

IP Dialing Directions
 # Dial 192.148.244.143.
 # Enable FAR END camera control.
 # DOWN ARROW until you highlight Internet2 9746
 # Use the RIGHT ARROW to enter that conference.
 # Do not forget to disable the FAR END camera control.

== Last Updated ==

$Id$