=  December 1, 2008 Conference Call 2:30 pm EDT =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees: Brian, Joe, Jason, Aaron, Rich, Jeff, Maxim
 # Team Updates
   # Internet2
	 * Jason: gLS performance enhancements, gLS interoperability testing w/LS-MDM, and gLS GUIs to show data freshness. Also worked on GUIs for SC including wmap, circuit status as well as working on many deployments for for SC and BWC.
     * Aaron: SCinet wan monitoring (pS status service and GUI) and other misc SCinet measurement tasks. BWC - primarily phoebus deployments and performance enhancements as well as pS-proc-scraper functionaity (can perhaps turn it into a 'generaic' MA. Currently working on UDP performance issue with KOI systems.
     * Rich: Reported back from an OSG-NPWorkshop. Alan Roy may be someone to talk with more to get pS client tools integrated into vdt. Also reported back on LSN/JET request to develop a perfSONAR deployment plan for JET nets.
     * Jeff: SC hangover. Reported on IRNC rumors and challenges. Beginning to help with DOE proposal. (And sorry, don't remember if I reported on anything else- I took to long to do the notes, and I'm bad about writing down what I talk about myself...)
   # IU
   # UDEL
   # Ga Tech
   # ESnet
     * Brian: pS proposal for DOE and gLS testing.
     * Joe: bwctl deployments.
   # SLAC
   # FNAL
     * Maxim: Nothing this week. Working on VNOC proposal?
   # MCNC
 # SC recap
   # How did weathermap work? Is there usable code here for other projects? Can we make it more plug-n-play for the future? *Should we start a wmap project to make these easier in the future?*
 # Deployments page - changes still needed?
    * Yes, changes still needed. *Brian will work with Jason to develop use cases to help define what we ~really~ want to see here.*
 # KOI UDP performance issue - status?
    * Still a problem. *Aaron will work on it.*
 # Central configuration service
   * Need to talk about how to harmonize service configuration files in functionality and syntax. And how that effects centralized configuration.
   * *Joe will take a first cut at creating a functional specification.*
 # ISO - Functional Specification
   * Attempt to make sure functionality is clear from a user perspective, and to ensure that the disc is useful from a diagnostic perspective as well as a measurement-point perspective.
   * *Jeff, Rich and Aaron will continue to work on this.*
 # Release Management is now needed...
    # stable snapshot of svn trunk
    *All: Jeff asked for volunteers to be rel-mgmt czar - email*
    * Next call will be dedicated to release-management.
 # Discussion of middle-term goals
   * Wiki
     * Migration of content is complete, if anyone feels they are missing something contact Jason - he has backup copies.
   * Release management
   * It has been proposed that after SC, we shore up a very few pieces of missing functionality, and then concentrate on hardening and optimizing the software we have.
   * If that is the general sentiment, perhaps we can come up with the specific short list of functionality we want to deal with - and come up with ideas on what reasonable processes we can go through to harden/optimize.
 # Next meeting will be Dec 11, 4:00 pm Eastern Time

== Where ==

Number of sites: 10
Mode: Voice Switched

Phone Ports: 10
Phone Bridge Information: (Scheduled through December 2008 due to scheduling limitations.)
Dial +1-614-247-6427
At the prompt, enter the Conference ID: 9746 followed by the pound (#) key.

GDS Dialing Directions:
 # Register with a GDS-enabled Gatekeeper.  To borrow space see: http://commons.internet2.edu/reggate.html
 # Make sure you are connecting at 384 kbps.
 # Dial 001189 783 9746 (no spaces)

IP Dialing Directions
 # Dial 192.148.244.143.
 # Enable FAR END camera control.
 # DOWN ARROW until you highlight Internet2 9746
 # Use the RIGHT ARROW to enter that conference.
 # Do not forget to disable the FAR END camera control.

== Last Updated ==

$Id$
