=  March 03 2008 Conference Call =

== Where ==

Starting Time: Jan 22, 2007 at 2:30 PM US/Eastern
Occurs: Every Monday from Jan 22, 2007 to Jan 16, 2012
Duration: 1 hour

To join the call, do one of the following:
  a. Dial +1-734-615-7474 (NON-US/CA USERS MUST USE THIS NUMBER - SYSTEM WILL NOT CALL OUT), +1-866-411-0013 (toll free US/Canada Only) or
+1-800-392-6130 (alternate toll free US/Canada Only) and enter access code 0188065, or
  b. To have the system call you, click here:https://edial.internet2.edu/call/0188065;

== When ==

 March 03 2008 - 2:30 EDT

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees: Matt, Rich, Jeff, Jason, Joe, Phil, Aaron, Jared, Phil
 # Agenda:
   * The propose of this meeting is to work on https://wiki.internet2.edu/confluence/display/PSPS/Tier-2-BCP
   * Identify Who the recommendation should be from
   * Identify Who is the recommendation to
   * Discuss current organization
     * What is the purpose of each section.
     * Are we missing anything important?
   * Who can contribute to which sections.
   * Set a date for next meeting (and when action items at this meeting should be done.)

== Document Structure ==

 * Introduction
   * The document should be a US perfSONAR collaboration recommendation to US LHC Tier2 centers.
   * We should focus on the diagnostics components, and not just the continuous tests.
   * Make sure it is more explicit that every organization is responsible for ensuring that the measurements to the remote sites important to them are made.
   * Add more about using ad-hoc measurements to diagnose problems
     * Add something about the requirements to use a common framework. push LS?
 * Goals
   * Change "TIER 1 & TIER 3" to "important Peers"
 * Methodology
   * Add a methodology section after goals that discusses:
     * The increased value to the whole community with more participation.
     * Present a methodology and discuss how different metrics and tools fit into it.

== Presentation for next week ==

 * Say we have started a doc
   * From US PS collaboration
   * To US CMS & US Atlas collaboration 
 * Give rough outline
 * Discuss goals section of document
 * Discuss existing forums that we are planning on using to get input from our users.
   * Internet2 HENP SIG
   * FERMI workshop in April or May for
     * US Atlas
     * US CMS 
     
== Action Items ==

 * Jeff:
   * Will do a presentation outline today & send it out.
   * Take another pass at the end-to-end delay section
 * Rich:
   * Make a pass at the "Diagnostics to look for specific known performance problems" section
 * Joe:
   * Make a pass over the presentation outline generated by Jeff
   * Schedule next meeting to discuss doc on Monday March 17 morning.

== Last Updated ==

$Id$

