=  August 18 2008 Conference Call =

== Where ==

Number of sites: 10
Mode: Voice Switched

Phone Ports: 10
Phone Bridge Information: (Scheduled through December 2008 due to scheduling limitations.)
Dial +1-614-247-6427
At the prompt, enter the Conference ID: 9746 followed by the pound (#) key.

GDS Dialing Directions:
 # Register with a GDS-enabled Gatekeeper.  To borrow space see: http://commons.internet2.edu/reggate.html
 # Make sure you are connecting at 384 kbps.
 # Dial 001189 783 9746 (no spaces)

IP Dialing Directions
 # Dial 192.148.244.143.
 # Enable FAR END camera control.
 # DOWN ARROW until you highlight Internet2 9746
 # Use the RIGHT ARROW to enter that conference.
 # Do not forget to disable the FAR END camera control.

== When ==

 August 18 2008 - 2:30 EDT

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees: Brian, Jarad, Joe, Aaron, Jason, Jeff, Rich
 # Team Updates
   # Internet2
    * Aaron: Mostly working on NPToolkit modifications. (RAMDISK, Dan (gsoc)
config scripts integration, pingER GUI. Also working on the OSCARS-MA/topo
service to integrate DCN topology sharing and pathfinding. Also keeping
up with the GLIF circuit monitoring demo and finishing up mentoring
a GSOC project to create a Java client implementation of OWAMP. Please
try it out at http://81.173.19.154/jowping/.
    * Jason: Also working on NPToolkit enhancements. Primarily gLS and SNMP
updates. gLS includes API refinement, stability/performance testing. SNMP
service updates include metadata queries for CF's and time-ranges. (The last
was done as part of a SCinet project, if it works out well Jason will
make a recommendation. Additionally, Jason has made updates to the
cacti/cricket/mrtg scripts for generating a SNMP store file from an
existing SNMP collector deployment. Further NPToolkit work will be
modifications for pS-B.
    * Jeff: Working on an AAI specification for the DICE meeting with
Nate and Candido. (For the CP/PS joint session wednesday afternoon.) Jeff
nearly has 'sender' side sessions working in powstream now. Additional
work will happen on pS-B to support owamp star-config later this week.
Jeff also *requested that the code-freeze* be moved to Friday (effectively
Sunday) - the group agreed.
   # IU
   # UDEL
   # Ga Tech
   # ESnet 
    * Joe: Attended FNAL Wide-Area-Networking call this past week, and
a discussion regarding how network monitoring systems will be maintained
and configured came up. Joe suggests we take on software management issues
and get FNAL/BNL to take on configuration management issues. (Software needs
to support a centralized configuration model for this to work.) Atlas
has mandated that all US Tier2 centers install the pS-PS ISO, so it will
be important to setup a reasonable support infrastructure. [side-track
discussion about the difficulties of getting a non-standard kernel
deployed at SLAC ensued. Lets just give Jarad some sympathy and move on.]
Joe has also been working on installing pingER, but ran into problems and
has not completed the installation yet.
    * Brian: Spoke with Ruth (?) from OSG about his new role @ESnet. He
will be attempting to get pS-PS software into the OSG toolset. New systems
have been approved for supporting the central gLS instances and for testing
the ISO distributions.  Brian has been working with Jason on performance and
stability testing of the gLS implementation.
   # SLAC
    * Jarad: SLAC has been looking at what it will take to package gmaps. And,
Jarad has asked to go to the AA ps-dev meeting.
   # FNAL
    * Maxim: email'd his update. (Basically, he has pingER warnings fixed
and has binaries available. - see the email for details.)
   # MCNC
 # Wiki Migration
  * Mostly complete. All meeting notes have been moved. *Jason* will go through
the remaining pages and assign 'owners' to either delete or migrate the
remaining content.
 # GLIF Demo Update (Aaron/Jeff)
   * Status: Participants are attempting to install the software now.
 # ISO status
   * Everyone still inline to finish by the 20th? (See [20080811Video 20080811Video] for actions.) Code-freeze has been moved to the 22nd.
   * Who is available for integration testing?
    # Jason will ask Warren (GaTech)
    # Rich will ask Sean McKee (UMich)
    # Others are likely to be from *this* group.
   * Need production gLS servers in time for this testing. *ESnet and Internet2
will each have one by Aug 27*.
 # FMM/SC08 Demo Planning
   * We will be supporting the 'Circuits' demo by showing a graphic of
circuits being created and destroyed along with utilization. (Demo will
be HDVideo content.)
   * We will show something similar to Jt Techs for the ISO's.
   * It sounds like only Jeff will be attending from this group.
 # Next meeting will be August 25, 2008

== Last Updated ==

$Id$
