=  Dec 14 2009 Conference Call 2:30 p.m. EDT =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees: Maxim, Ezra, Aaron, Eric, Andy, Jeff, Joe, Brian, Martin, Marcos
 # Developer Updates
   * Maxim: Resolution for pingER problem is not finished. Have been unable to duplicate. Working primarily on eCenter. Looking at ways to do remote administration of pS services on hosts. Need to work on functional and design specifications.
   * Ezra: Testing emulab architure (virtual switches), testing ciruit monitoring. Currently working on making sure emulab images have the same pS versions installed. Ezra is interested in Deb packages of pS.
   * Aaron: Iperf3 integration into bwctl. Prliminary version working. Working on NTP security patch.
   * Eric: Nothing to report.
   * Andy: USAtlas found processes showing processes running when they are not. Has a patch ready for testing. Working on adding value buckets into owamp MA. Database interaction of MA is slow.
   * Jeff: Roadmap, OSG report, Training/Workshops in the future.
   * Joe: LHCOPN report. Monitoring tutorial. Map of LHCOPN (graphical e2emon system). Seemed to be discontent from regionals. For circuit monitoring - (good, good, unknown, good) == good? Don't like that model. DEISA has rejected MDM because it is not multi-domain, they also do not like the GPS clock req.
   * Brian: Nothing to report
   * Martin: Nothing to report
   * Marcos: Put out more results from gLS testing. Please look at the wiki page.
 # Actions from last call:
 * _*ACTION*_: Everyone - please provide feedback on cfengine config.
 * _*ACTION*_: Maxim will work with Andy and Aaron to verify the pingER-MP fix.
 * _*ACTION*_: Andy will propose methods to deal with test point uniqueness.
 * _*ACTION*_: Jeff, Brian and Joe will work on the roadmap.
 * _*ACTION*_: Jon will add Aaron to Iperf project. Aaron will add autoconf tools and begin bwctl/iperf3 integration.
 * _*ACTION*_: Joe/Brian will consider if ESnet has resources they want to put towards the RedHat based pS-NPTk version.
 # pS-Performance-Toolkit - Security updates
   * NTP issue
     * *plan is to include a fix in the 3.1.2 release. Already have a script available that will dynamically upgrade a 3.1 and 3.1.1 host whenever it is rebooted.*
   * Policy for security updates going forward
     # Need a more private list for discussion of issues
     # Publicly announce once we have solution?
     # Automatic security updates?
 # *!TestPoint Uniqueness* (Andy)
     * Andy discovered two separate types of duplicates that might appear in serviceTest.cgi. In one case, there were two separate entries that returned the same data set, and in the other, there were two identical looking entries that returned different data. Andy thought that the former problem might be a problem in the pSB MA's SQL generation where requests for two different 'node' elements were getting mapped to only one of them. To handle the latter issue, Andy thought that he could modify the service test CGI script to merge the duplicate entries into a single element that requests multiple keys and overlays both sets of data onto the same plot. There was some discussion about how this might get rearchitected, but it was decided that these kinds of ideas would probably be more appropriate for a future "MA database architecture" meeting. Jeff and Aaron thought that Andy's short term approach seemed sound.
 # Future Meetings
     * Suggested Topics:
        * MA database architecture
        * gLS/hLS profiling/optimizations
        * Automated updates for pS-PerfTK
        * Circuit Monitoring
        * Architecture for web-services based test scheduling
        * Nagios on the toolkit
   * 1/2 day vid-conf in January
   * 1/2 day f2f @ SLC (Jt Techs - Sunday afternoon)
 # *Future topics*:
   * _*pSPS*_:
     * Community handling in regular testing screens.  If the user doesn't pick a community, others can'y use this mechanism to find the node
       * N.B. the node is still _findable_ via other methods including domain/IP and it does show up in the gLS
       * Does it make sense to set a default?
       * Should there be other methods to find sans communities?
     * GUIs
       * BWCTL
       * OWAMP
   * _*Google MLab*_
     * Register each deployment (and tools on each) into pSPS
     * GUI to find an NDT server.  Started by *Jason*, still have the _public_ vs _private_ routing to these servers
     * Make MLab data public - even better expose it via pSPS
   * _*NSF perfSONAR Workshop*_
     * How would a researcher use pS to fulfill research goals?
     * How do you get tool developers to publish via pS?
     * NSF will be creating a steering committee for this workshop.
     * Hopefully NSF is interested in funding pS.
   * _*Service Monitoring*_
     * Availability (current + historic)
     * Nagios Plugins
     * Data monitoring vs service liveness
   * _*Config management*_
     * Sharing service configuration through IS
     * Centralized way to manage configs of similar services.  
   * _*Status Collection Enhancements*_
     * Overview: DCN _Status_ page uses the TL1 collector to extract and display many of the Cienna counters.  Currently only cares about interfaces and interface-like things.  
     * Similar Work: Jon Dugan's [http://code.google.com/p/esxsnmp/|ESxSNMP] which is a high performance SNMP polling system.  
     * Enhancement Ideas
       * Combine efforts to use TL1 collectors in ESxSNMP.  Would use same database backend and pS interface by doing this
       * Collecting/Storing network topology.  Specifically: how interfaces are connected via the switching fabric/external links and any other tie ins to the discussions in working groups. 
       * Gathering and storing alarm information.  Is this the same as Status?  Could or should this be done in nagios.  
 
=== ACTIONS ===


== Where ==

ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS:  00113498255555
 * phone: 1-510-883-7860  then 8255555# at the prompt.
