=  March 9, 2009 Conference Call 2:30 pm EST =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees: Brian, Marcos, Jason, Aaron, Jeff, Maxim, Guilherme, Rich, Joe
 # Team Updates
   # Internet2
     * Aaron: Working on next generation pS-NPToolkit. RPMs etc...
     * Jason: Release stuff, documentation stuff, gLS summarization issues. GUI progress, bug fixes.
     * Jeff: pS-B, logistics for f2f meeting.
   # IU
   # UDEL
     * Martin: OGF, identifiers, IS-WG summarization, beginning to look at 'authority' issues in IS (who registered particular information).
   # ESNet
     * Joe: Working on nagios monitoring of pS services on ESnet.
     * Brian: Working with Joe to integrate Jon's SNMP database backend. Also working on pS-B deployments. Debugging distributed services is hard, we should do as much as we can to make that better.
   # FNAL
     * Maxim: CHEP paper, took PAM paper for much content. (Due March 20) Still needs deployment information. MDM of pingER-PS. Looking at pingER-PS GUI. Would like numbers on current and planned deployments. Paper should end up about 10 pages.
 # perfSONAR-PS v0.10 Release Update
   * See [pSPS20090327Release] for details
     * Check individual progress.
     * Code reviews by the 13th.
     * Open Bugs
       * _19_ - _*Aaron/Maxim*_ - ~~PingER GUI gLS pingable hosts~~  
       * _73_ - _*Jason*_ - Client::LS Registration Logic Re-arrange    
       * _79_ - _*Jason*_ - ~~Empty gLS/hLS Messages~~
       * _84_ - _*Jason*_ - ~~Exit MA service if no data is present~~    
       * _85_ - _*Jason*_ - ~~add verbose logging on errors for ma/ls~~
       * _105_ - _*Jason*_ - hLS Summarization of DCN Data 
       * _109_ - _*Jason*_ - ~~gLS Discovery of IP Addresses~~
       * _110_ - _*Jason*_ - ~~perfSONAR-BUOY Data Query Error~~
       * _62_ - _*Maxim*_ - ~~pingER-MA requires 'hostname" type attribute in endPointPair~~   
       * _66_ - _*Maxim*_ - ~~PingER Collection Errors~~   
       * _81_ - _*Maxim*_ - ~~PingER Resolution of IPaddress/Hostnames~~
   * Code slush status
   * Take pS-B out of the 3.1 release schedule, and release it one month later (with same version number)
     * _*Jeff*_: will put a project planning page up with milestones, and verify with Jason that the milestones are understandable represented in the issue-tracker.
     * _*All*_: Code reviews in trunk, accepted changes will be copied to the 3.1 branch.
 # Circuit Monitoring
   * Discuss the path forward for circuit monitoring including adding additional performance metrics and handling dynamic circuits. Please see:
     * [CircuitMonitoring]
     * [CircuitMonitoringMoreDetails]
   * Anything we need to discuss here before a joint meeting with IDC developers?
   * _*Jeff*_: Will contact Martin to see if he is ready to use these links to engage the IDC developers on the topic of circuit monitoring.
 # SNMP-MA ESnet new database integration update
   * _*Jason*_: Will respond to the SNMP-MA questions on-list. _*Brian*_: Expects this will only take a couple more days to integrate.
 # CHEP
   * status - due date is 20th.
   * _*All*_: Review/add to doc this week.
 # LHC/Atlas deployments (status update)
   * BNL bwctl's still having problems.
 # GUI followup
   # wmap status
   # gLS related GUIs - status
 # GSoC
   * Please send ideas.
 # DICE next week
   * Jeff is going, please let him know of any topics that need to be discussed with our EU compatriots.
 # Next meeting will March 16. 
 # Other topics?

== Where ==

ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS:  00113498255555
 * phone: 1-510-883-7860  then 8255555# at the prompt.
