=  July 13, 2009 Conference Call 2:30 pm EDT =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees:
 # Team Updates
   * Joe: Have not looked at LS issues yet. East coast servers should be running in the next week. Working on a perfSONAR deployment white paper and jt techs talks.
     * Jt Techs: Deployment experiences track session and perfSONAR deployment BOF.
   * Aaron: Working on DCN weather-map/circuit monitoring page. Functionally complete for this release. Also working on pS-PerfTK - specifically have fixed an issue where it would not boot on the Dell 1750. Focus going forward is making DCN monitoring pretty and working on talks.
   * Jason: Release pain continues. pS-B not yet done, new iso's out thursday.
   * Rich: Bigrow is looking at the pre-release.
   * Jeff: Working on pS-B/owamp. Specifically, the signal handling in perl completely changed in version 5.8, and the master/collector process loops were crafted with the old model in mind (and now go crazy sometimes). Also preparing for Jt Techs track session on the pS-Performance Toolkit.

 # Review _*Actions*_ and _*Issues*_
   * _*Jason*_ - ~~will update release pages as needed~~
   * _*Jason*_ - ~~will contact Marcos about IP Summarization~~
   * _*Jason/Martin/Jeff*_ - Finish editing OGF documents
   * _*Jason/Martin/Jeff*_ - Complete/Upload NML document
   * _*Aaron/Maxim*_ - Review admin GUIs and unify as much as possible.
   * _*Joe*_ - Suggest interim steps to improve LS user experience, that don't require new software deployments.
   * _*Jeff*_ - Start collecting agenda topics for a Jt Techs meeting. (First up is LS convergence time assumptions, goals.)
   * _*All*_ - Review release pages
 # Release Activities
   * New Dates
     * pSPS 3.1 Release (7/10) 
       * pSB still in progress
       * RCs for other services if necessary
         * LS fixes
     * pS-PerformanceTK (7/15)
       * Consider this a _beta_, will go out to testers Weds/Thurs/Fri
   * Update Your Bug Status!
 # Discuss agenda for F2F in Indianapolis
   * If more topics are not sent in, we will likely just touch base but not do anything as coordinated as last time. Still, if there are topics you would like to discuss - please send to Jeff.
 # LHC/Atlas deployments (status update)
 # Next Meeting will be Face to Face in Indianapolis.

=== ACTIONS ===

== Where ==

ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS:  00113498255555
 * phone: 1-510-883-7860  then 8255555# at the prompt.
