=  June 22, 2009 Conference Call 2:30 pm EDT =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees: Jason, Brian, Maxim, Marcos, Joe, Rich, Aaron, Jeff
 # Team Updates
   * Jason: NIST proposal. Hope to get bugs done over the next week. Will update release plan in the next week.
   * Aaron: IDC developers meeting. Document clean up pS-PerfTK. Throughput tests seem to be more stable. Testing hardware for good owamp hosts. Will be focusing on circuit monitoring going forward.
   * Rich: Nothing new. All of Atlas is up except for SLAC.
   * Jeff: Focus on pS-B owamp from here on out.
   * Brian: Bug fixes in test harness. Tested nptoolkit.
   * Joe: Working on throughput-google-maps GUIs. Having problems interacting with gLS infrastructure. Working on presentations - Jt Techs. Also working on recommendations for ESnet sites for deploying pS.
   * Marcos: Preparing paper on IPsummarization. Perl is done, but not integrated into LS yet.
   * Maxim: Admin interface of pingER is now in catalyst. AJAX interaction is a bit strange. Anticipate finishing this week. 
 # Review _*Actions*_ and _*Issues*_
   * _*Jason*_ - ~~will update release pages as needed~~
   * _*Jason*_ - will contact Marcos about IP Summarization
   * _*Jason/Martin/Jeff*_ - Finish editing OGF documents
   * _*Jason/Martin/Jeff*_ - Complete/Upload NML document
   * _*All*_ - Review release pages
   * _*Aaron*_ - Update CGIs based on suggestions today.  
   * _*Aaron*_ - Consider the switch to catalyst - weigh positives and negatives
   * _*All*_ - Review Aaron's CGIs, provide more feedback
 # Release Activities
   # Development Update
     * pSB
     * Admin GUIs
   # Open Bugs
 # LHC/Atlas deployments (status update)
 # Next VC will be 6/29.

=== ACTIONS ===

   * _*Jason*_ - ~~will update release pages as needed~~
   * _*Jason*_ - will contact Marcos about IP Summarization
   * _*Aaron/Maxim*_ - Review admin GUIs and unify as much as possible.
   * _*Joe*_ - Suggest interim steps to improve LS user experience, that don't require new software deployments.
   * _*Jeff*_ - Start collecting agenda topics for a Jt Techs meeting. (First up is LS convergence time assumptions, goals.)

== Where ==

ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS:  00113498255555
 * phone: 1-510-883-7860  then 8255555# at the prompt.
