=  March 2, 2009 Conference Call 2:30 pm EST =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees: Jason, Aaron, Brian, Guilherme, Marcos, Jeff, Maxim
 # Team Updates
   # Internet2
     * Jason: Release management, API's for J Packard, Deployments on observatory hosts. GUIs for NDT and word-cloud.
     * Aaron: Knoppix work for future releases - no boot questions. dhcp-client instead of pump, clean-up of how things get mounted to more closely match fedora, write-up for tl1-querying schema.
     * Jeff: Project planning, owamp database schema.
   # IU
   # UDEL
     * Marcos: Research security/authentication.
   # ESNet
     * Joe: Working on Nagios infrastructure for monitoring pS services.
     * Brian: pS-B/bwctl on ESnet
   # FNAL
     * Maxim: CHEP paper this week. Still have 3 weeks. Code review of pS-B on his list. Coming up with RPM for pingER-PS for MDM. Perhaps integrate keywords into the pingER GUI or pingER admin interface.
 # perfSONAR-PS v0.10 Release Update
   * SVN Branching tonight - Update from Aaron.
     * Old modules will be removed with the exception of pingER. A release branch will be created.
   * See [pSPS20090327Release] for details
     * Check individual progress.
   * Code slush is scheduled for March 6!
 # Circuit Monitoring
   * Discuss the path forward for circuit monitoring including adding additional performance metrics and handling dynamic circuits. Please see:
     * [CircuitMonitoring]
     * [CircuitMonitoringMoreDetails]
 # SNMP-MA ESnet new database integration update
   * Jon/Brian working on it this week.
 # CHEP
   * working on it this week, 3 weeks to finish - due 20th.
 # LHC/Atlas deployments (status update)
   * no updates.
 # GUI followup
   # wmap still on the list - currently stalled.
   # gLS related GUIs under development
      * probably adjusting the API.
 # [PerformanceNodeAdminInterface pS-NPToolkit Administrative GUI]
   * Any feedback now that everyone has had time to see this?
     * Brain: Do we really want opt-in system?
     * Brian: Default ntp servers all in US?
     * Brian: Should we have standard keywords?
 # GSoC
   * Please send ideas.
 # Next meeting will March 9. 
 # Other topics?

== Where ==

ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS:  00113498255555
 * phone: 1-510-883-7860  then 8255555# at the prompt.
