=  May 11, 2009 Conference Call 2:30 pm EST =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees
Brian, Xi, Aaron, Maxim, Rich, Martin, Joe, Jason, Jeff, Marcos, Evangalis
 # Team Updates
   # Internet2
    * Aaron: pS-NPToolkit (web admin update)
    * Jason: OGF26 docs.
    * Jeff: AA, OWAMP,
    * Rich: nothing
   # ESnet
    * Brian: SNMP-MA back up - registering gLS. Looking at traceroute visualizer.
    * Joe: Working on hardening deployments (monitoring etc...).
   # UDel
    * Marcos: Updates to summarization. Updates on the wiki.
    * Martin: Preparing for OGF.
   # FNAL
    * Maxim: Working on catalyst/modperl/tt. (KOI perf problems still exist.)
 # KOI performance
   * network issues still exist.
 # DOE funding issues
   * FNAL GUI was funded (Bucknell? Statistics on pS.)
   * ESnet stimulous $$$ for pS
   * Total of 2-3 more FTEs.
 # perfSONAR-PS v3.1 Release Update
   * New Bugs
     * Missing extension script to the configure daemon, new RC will correct.
   * Release Candidate Generation
     * LS, SNMP-MA, LS-reg, status to be updated this week (by friday).
     * pingER may need one for docs and hLS registration issue.
   * Suggestions on Testing
     * Jason will be trying to get 
 # Review _*Actions*_ from last call: [20090429Meet April 29]
 # Review open issue tracker items
   * *Jeff* will dump the table before calls and bring out specific ones for discussing at future calls. 
 # Discuss priorities for next pS-NPToolkit Release (see Shawn email for ref)
   * Brian/Rich like Shawns list, Jeff is not crazy about the GUI.
   * Maxim would like an option to 'reset' any service.
   * Brian (self monitoring?)
 # OGF Documents (Jason)
   * 3 main thrusts: Base, Topo, 
 # Circuit Monitoring
   * Aaron/Andy working on overlap issues.
   * Joe asked about an overall architecture document.
 # SNMP-MA ESnet new database integration update
   * Waiting on release branching issues
 # LHC/Atlas deployments (status update)
   * MIT/FL/UNL all pending.
   * Rich needs good estimate for next pS-NPToolkit Release. Jeff suggested Jt Techs as the absolute limit, but hopes late June.
 # Next VC will be 5/18.

=== ACTIONS ===


== Where ==

ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS:  00113498255555
 * phone: 1-510-883-7860  then 8255555# at the prompt.
