=  March 16, 2009 Conference Call 2:30 pm EST =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees: 
   * Martin
   * Guilherme
   * Marcos
   * Aaron
   * Brian
   * Jason
   * Maxim
   * Rich
   * Joe 
 # Team Updates
   # Internet2
     * Jeff - On his way to DICE
     * Aaron - Working on release activities (packaging, testing, documentation).  Spent much time on preparing new release of Performance Node for Cisco TP Activity.
     * Jason - Release management (documentation, bugfixing, packaging, organizing).  
     * Rich - Worked with BNL to debug installation issues with Performance Node.  Bugs fixed with pSB, now working on trying to develop rules and instructions for deploying certain number of nodes to test with for bandwith (and eventually latency).  
   # UDEL
     * Martin - Speant time working w/ Marcos on IP Summariation code.  Started thinking about changes to hLS/gLS architecture
     * Guilherme - Code Review
     * Marcos - IP Summarization changes.  Will do code review when Jason gives info on what and where.
   # ESNet
     * Joe - Code reviews of LSReg Daemon.  Would like to talk about some issues sometime soon (next call?).  Hardened pS installation on ESnet backbone.
     * Brian - Code reviews of SNMP MA.  Stuck on SNMP MA development of ESnet extension.  Will look to create a branch, and work with Jon D. to get further.  Expects to work with Jason/Aaron F2F at the SMM.
   # FNAL
     * Maxim - Code Review of pSB.  Closing bugs for PingER. CHEP Paper.  Needs everyone to read the paper, contribute information that may be missing (deployments, data).  Deadline weds (will be talking with Phil M Thurs about presentation).
 # perfSONAR-PS v3.1 Release Update
   * See [pSPS20090327Release] for details
     * Check individual progress.
     * Code reviews by the 20th.
       * _*COMPLETED*_
         * Maxim
         * Guilherme
         * Brian
         * Joe
         * Marcos
         * Jason
         * Aaron
       * _*MISSING*_
         * Jeff
     * Documentation Reviews
       * Developers Finish (3/27)
       * Reviews Due (4/3)
     * Open Bugs
       * _19_ - _*Aaron/Maxim*_ - ~~PingER GUI gLS pingable hosts~~  
       * _73_ - _*Jason*_ - Client::LS Registration Logic Re-arrange    
       * _79_ - _*Jason*_ - ~~Empty gLS/hLS Messages~~
       * _84_ - _*Jason*_ - ~~Exit MA service if no data is present~~    
       * _85_ - _*Jason*_ - ~~add verbose logging on errors for ma/ls~~
       * _105_ - _*Jason*_ - hLS Summarization of DCN Data 
       * _109_ - _*Jason*_ - ~~gLS Discovery of IP Addresses~~
       * _110_ - _*Jason*_ - ~~perfSONAR-BUOY Data Query Error~~
       * _112_ - _*Jason*_ - ~~supportedEventType Examples for SNMP/pSB~~
       * _116_ - _*Jason*_ - ~~Migrate getRRDData to SNMP.pm~~
       * _62_ - _*Maxim*_ - ~~pingER-MA requires 'hostname" type attribute in endPointPair~~   
       * _66_ - _*Maxim*_ - ~~PingER Collection Errors~~   
       * _81_ - _*Maxim*_ - ~~PingER Resolution of IPaddress/Hostnames~~
   * Code slush status
 # Circuit Monitoring
   * Discuss the path forward for circuit monitoring including adding additional performance metrics and handling dynamic circuits. Please see:
     * [CircuitMonitoring]
     * [CircuitMonitoringMoreDetails]
   * Aaron has some things to correct based on a discussion with Jason/Martin/Jeff
   * Will send out notice to the list to get more feedback this week.
 # SNMP-MA ESnet new database integration update
   * See Brian update.  Stalled pending help at the SMM.
 # CHEP
   * See Maxim update.
 # LHC/Atlas deployments (status update)
   * See Rich update.
   * Jason adds that Jay Packard is re-engaging to install/develop tools.
 # GUI followup
   * Stalled pending release.
 # GSoC
   * Application submitted.
   * Join the mailing lists if interested
   * Expect to get results of application the end of this week.
 # Next meeting will be 3/23
   * Release Focused.

=== ACTIONS ===

 * Jason
   * ~~Get Marcos info on code reviews~~
   * ~~Close bugs~~
   * ~~Finish packaging~~
   * Finish documentation
   * ~~Code Reviews~~
   * Doc Reviews
   * Read CHEP - Give Maxim Feedback
 * Aaron
   * ~~Address Martin/Jason/Jeff feedback on circuits~~
   * ~~Send email regarding circuits for feedback~~
   * ~~Finish packaging~~
   * Finish documentation
   * ~~Code Reviews~~
   * Doc Reviews
   * Read CHEP - Give Maxim Feedback
 * Jeff
   * ~~DICE Meeting~~ - Report to Group
   * ~~Code Reviews~~
   * Doc Reviews
   * Read CHEP - Give Maxim Feedback
 * Marcos
   * IP Summarization
   * ~~Code Reviews~~
   * Doc Reviews
   * Read CHEP - Give Maxim Feedback
 * Martin
   * Read CHEP - Give Maxim Feedback
 * Guilherme
   * Doc Reviews
   * Read CHEP - Give Maxim Feedback
 * Brian
   * Doc Reviews
   * Read CHEP - Give Maxim Feedback
 * Maxim
   * Doc Reviews
   * Read CHEP - Give Maxim Feedback
 * Rich
   * Continue to work with USAtlas - bring questions to this group when applicable.
   * Read CHEP - Give Maxim Feedback
 * Joe 
   * Doc Reviews
   * Read CHEP - Give Maxim Feedback

== Where ==

ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS:  00113498255555
 * phone: 1-510-883-7860  then 8255555# at the prompt.
