=  June 8, 2009 Conference Call 2:30 pm EDT =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees: 
   * Jason
   * Rich
   * Maxim
   * Marcos
   * Brian
   * Aaron
 # Team Updates
   * Internet2
     * Aaron - Most time spend on NPToolkit work, particularly the configuration GUIs.  See section later in meeting for more info.  Other bugs related to toolkit services were found/fixed/pending fixing as well.
     * Jason - NPW last week at Vanderbilt.  Lots of interest from Vandy (both REDDnet and OSG participation) in performance tools and perfSONAR.  OGF documents entering a slowdown after some more tweaking (see update later).  Release activities starting.  See pages for more information.  
     * Jeff - At TERENA this week, was at SCinet meeting last.  Trying to finish pSB.  
     * Rich - NPW @ Vandy last week.
   * ESnet
     * Joe - Unable to make call today.  Brian gave minor update that he has been involved in many sysadmin activities.  
     * Brian - Has summer students working on visualization.  Jason provided with old WMap code.  2 students for WMap development, maybe one more for SNMP visualization.  Asks if we are aware of visualisation activities for geni (GRNOC is involved).  Jason will ask Matt Z/Jeff (N.B. Jason did ask and both are aware).  
   * Fermi
     * Maxim - PingER GUI completed, used [http://www.catalystframework.org/ catalyst] and liked it.  Would like to see other GUIs use it as well to keep look/feel the same and to speed up development.  Fixing bugs (e.g. [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=181 181]) and will give RPMs to Jason for uploading.  
       * Minor conversation between Maxim/Brian on the speed of PingER GUI.  Brian states it is slow for large chunks of data, is there some sort of status _spinner_ to indicate progress?  Maxim says yes, Jason/Aaron confirm.  Maxim explains how it works in relation to MA and that slowness may be MA related but also tweaked GUI parameters to need less data.        
   * UDel
     * Marcos - IPSummarization work is progressing, converted to perl and awaiting Jason/Martin/Jeff to start some form of evaluation.  Jason will get the ball rolling this week.  Next project is anomaly detection.       
 # Review _*Actions*_ and _*Issues*_
   * No actions posted from last week
   * Jason has uploaded new RC (not posted but was a holdover)
   * OGF docs are ready for Review
   * Add more if anyone thinks of any...
 # KOI performance update - *Aaron*
   * Aaron reports nothing new beyond Brian's observation that new kernel/driver software helped.  Seems to be problems w/ perfSONAR-BUOY now (database related).  Jason thinks it may be related to the new _package_ structure in SVN: perfSONAR-BUOY was never converted so may not work correctly.  Jason/Aaron will look into this.  Jason recommends sticking with _trunk_ version of pSB.      
 # Aaron's GUIs
   * Aaron presented some GUIs:
     * _*Scheduled Tests*_ - https://lab246.internet2.edu/admin/regular_testing.cgi     * _*BWCTL*_ - https://lab246.internet2.edu/admin/bwctl.cgi     * _*OWAMP*_ - https://lab246.internet2.edu/admin/owamp.cgi     * _*Running Services*_ - https://lab246.internet2.edu/admin/services.cgi     * _*NTP*_ - https://lab246.internet2.edu/admin/ntp.cgi     * _*Administrative Info*_ - https://lab246.internet2.edu/admin/administrative_info.cgi
   * Maxim: See comments from email list regarding GUI vs. Web GUI.  
   * Aaron: Explains that the dojo stuff he is using does what maxim wants. CGI::AJAX may make something not look as Maxim would like to see it.
   * Maxim/Aaron: Discussion regarding look feel + architecture.  Maxim thinks we should use catalyst as the framework (at a minimum we should all use the same thing - catalyst is easy to use and fully featured).  
   * Aaron: discusses why he choose dojo (IDC folks use it, also fully featured, CSS etc. built right in).  
   * Jason: Can discussion architecture details later - should focus on layout/content for this discussion
   * Jason has some comments on layout/structure/content:
     * Finds some of the _longer_ configuration screens confusing.  E.g. if you have to scroll to see all content, there may be too much content on the page.  Suggests a _Wizard_ interface that gives a small number of choices per screen - less confusion as to what to do (example: regular setup has too many options near the bottom, need to know what each 'click' is going to do).  Brian remarks that a _wizard_ will frustrate power users.  Two interfaces is hard to maintain, so need to weigh the positives and negatives of each.  
     * Some of the _choices_ for checkboxes and similar have a mouseover hover property. These look like hyperlinks but don't click.  Could we make them a pop-up menu with more information?
     * Names of things are not conistent (e.g. _throughput_ testing vs _BWCTL_ testing vs _perfSONAR-BUOY_ testing).  Aaron will suggest alternatives.  
  * Brian's last suggestion is for more advanced options (e.g. TCP cong. alg)
 # Release Activities - *Jason*
   # perfSONAR-PS 3.1 status 
     * New Bugs - these have been identified and are working to be closed.  
     * RC Generation - still generating on demand.  
   # perfSONAR-PS 3.1+ status 
     * See [pSPS200907Release]
     * Tasks Assigned - read the web page to see if you are on the hook for anything.  Note that some tasks (testing/doc/code reviews) may be stalled on development.  Developers should communicate when they are ready for these subsequent steps.  
     * Bugs Updated - keep this list up to date: cross off things when you know they are done.
   # pS-NPToolkit 3.1 status 
     * See [PerformanceToolkit200907Release] 
     * Tasks Assigned - read the web page to see if you are on the hook for anything.  Note that some tasks (testing/doc/code reviews) may be stalled on development.  Developers should communicate when they are ready for these subsequent steps. 
     * Bugs Updated - keep this list up to date: cross off things when you know they are done.
 # OGF Document status - *Jason*
   * NM-WG
     * Base Uploaded to GF - [https://forge.gridforum.org/sf/go/doc15649?nav=1]
     * Outstanding Edits - Jeff/Martin/Brian
     * New version to upload by end of this week
   * NML-WG
     * Nothing uploaded (yet)
     * Outstanding Edits - Jeff/Martin
     * Expected upload in 1/2 weeks
   * NMC-WG
     * Base Uploaded to GF - [https://forge.gridforum.org/sf/go/doc15644?nav=1]
     * MA Uploaded to GF - [https://forge.gridforum.org/sf/go/doc15646?nav=1]
     * MA still incomplete
     * Changes/upload in 1/2 weeks
 # LHC/Atlas deployments (status update) - *Rich*
   * Nothing to add
 # Next VC will be 6/15.
   * Will be short and focused on release due to DCN developers conference.

=== ACTIONS ===

 * _*Jason*_ - will update release pages as needed
 * _*Jason*_ - will contact Marcos about IP Summarization
 * _*Jason/Martin/Jeff*_ - Finish editing OGF documents
 * _*Jason/Martin/Jeff*_ - Complete/Upload NML document
 * _*All*_ - Review release pages
 * _*Aaron*_ - Update CGIs based on suggestions today.  
 * _*Aaron*_ - Consider the switch to catalyst - weigh positives and negatives
 * _*All*_ - Review Aaron's CGIs, provide more feedback

== Where ==

ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS:  00113498255555
 * phone: 1-510-883-7860  then 8255555# at the prompt.
