=  May 18, 2009 Conference Call 2:30 pm EST =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees: Brian, Jason, Marcos, Aaron, Jeff, Martin, Fahad
 # Team Updates
   * Brian: KOI network drivers. Solid if within around 15 ms.
   * Jason: OGF docs, looking for reviews this week. Wants to keep this going.
   * Marcos: Summarization looks reasonable, will work on perl version. Joe agreed this version looked reasonable.
   * Aaron: Working on next pS-NPToolkit release. Updating configuration GUIs. Working on an interaction with 'keywords'/communities to allow better community related things across multiple pages. Discussion on how to optimize the HTTP connects.
   * Martin: Looking at topology, and focusing on OGF.
   * Jeff:  OGF/ pS-B-owamp.
   * Joe: no update.
   * Fahad: Working on integrating gridFTP with pS.
 # Review _*Actions*_ and _*Issues*_
   * [http://perfsonar-ps.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/20090518perfsonar-ps-issues.xls]
 # KOI performance update
 # perfSONAR-PS v3.1 Release Update
   * New Bugs
   * Release Candidate Generation
     * LS, SNMP-MA, LS-reg, status to be updated this week (by friday).
     * pingER may need one for docs and hLS registration issue.
   * Suggestions on Testing
     * Jason will be trying to get Penn st/ TAMU to test.
 # pS-NPToolkit 3.1 status
   * Updated the roadmap with the atlas requests: http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/wiki/NPToolkitPlans
   * Plans to update the roadmap with feature status.
 # OGF Document status (Jason)
   * Discussed reviewers.
 # Circuit Monitoring Development Status
 # SNMP-MA ESnet new database integration update
   * Still waiting on release branching issues
 # LHC/Atlas deployments (status update)
   * MIT/FL/UNL all pending.
   * Jeff attended the Atlas call last week and updated that community on the 'roadmap'. They seemed ok with the schedule as communicated. (Next pS-NPToolkit in late June.)
 # Next VC will be 6/1.

=== ACTIONS ===


== Where ==

ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS:  00113498255555
 * phone: 1-510-883-7860  then 8255555# at the prompt.