=  June 1, 2009 Conference Call 2:30 pm EDT =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees: Joe, Brian, Evangelis, Marcos, Jeff, Maxim
 # Team Updates
   * Brian: Nothing new, planning to work with some students to work on a weathermap application. Will contact Jason for latest weathermap developments. Also have a new student working on iperf. Anyone interested in specific features should add things to the iperf tracker.
   * Joe: Have 2 topology servers for ESnet installed now. Updated automatically - data should be current within 2 hours. Unsure how compliant it is. Joe would like to discuss svn externals.
   * Evangelis: Showed google-earth visualizations at OGF.
   * Marcos: Working on Perl version of IPTree.
   * Maxim: Fixing statistical bug in pingER. Have new RPM's. Explored catalyst for GUIs. Can handle large loads. Moved pingER data UI under catalyst under trunk. Will start a wiki page to start evaluation of moving pS-PS GUIs into the same framework.
   * Jeff: OGF last week. NM-WG is progressing as expected. NMC is on track, but more input is needed from GN3 participants. NML was contentious as expected, but progress was made. Specifically, lifetime concept was agreed to. And, the 'relation' element in UNIS makes the UNIS model much closer to NDL. Watch for notes/docuements.
 # Review _*Actions*_ and _*Issues*_
   * [http://perfsonar-ps.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/20090518Video/20090601perfsonar-ps-issues.xls]
      * Brian: will look at the data since it has been running a while now.
      * Joe: We should be tracking progress of issues week by week.
 # Next VC will be 6/8.

=== ACTIONS ===


== Where ==

ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS:  00113498255555
 * phone: 1-510-883-7860  then 8255555# at the prompt.
