=  May 1 IDC Agenda =

<wiki:toc max_depth="6" />

== IDC Agenda ==

 # 8:30 (0:30) NSI Summary (John)
   * Coordinate IDC planning with NSI architecture definition
 # 9:00 (0:15) Circuit Status (E2EMon lives on...): Current Arch (Aaron)
   * Architecture: GUI/MA/agent
   * Configuration requirements
   * Limitations: CurrentE2EMonLimitations
 # 9:15 (2:00) Circuit Status: Planned Architecture Enhancements (Aaron)
   * Use-case clarification collection
     * What needs to be 'monitored'
     * Look at chrobb/IU use-case
   * [CircuitMonitoring Circuit Monitoring Roadmap]
   * pS DCN Monitoring Architecture
     * Picture of the pieces
     * Proposal for interfaces
     * Topology examples
     * Evaluation
       * How does 0.5 fit this model? 0.6?
       * Where does the hardware specific content get added?
 # 11:15 (0:45) pS/IDC Overlap Issues (Aaron)
   * 0.6 module decomposition brings out overlap in
     * AAA
     * IS (Topology and Service Discovery)
 # 12:00 Lunch
 # 12:30 (4:00) 0.6 Design Decisions
   * Technologies to support modules' WS interface (e.g. Tomcat, Jetty)
   * Distinction between modules' exposed interface (e.g. to Coordinator) and internal module
   * Symmetric/asymmetric behavior for module functions

== Last Modified ==

$Id$
