=  January 12, 2009 Conference Call 2:30 pm EST =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees: Jared, John Hicks, Jason, Aaron, Maxim, Joe, Brian, Martin, Rich, Marcos
 # Team Updates
   # Internet2
      * Aaron: UDP testing, owamp & bwctl releases. helping pS-B
      * Jason: pS-B packaging and disting out on Internet2 observatory hosts. Jason has been working on release documentation. Also working on making SCinet data available.
      * Rich: Met with Koreans - they are interested. It would be good to contact them for APAN meeting.
      * Jeff: Working on 
   # IU
      * John: starting on a visual-backbone MA. Followup on APAN pS workshop.
   # UDEL
      * Martin: nothing to update. OGF - should push forward the LS in the OGF-NSI group. Action: Figure out where we are in all 4 groups and what we need to do for next week.
   # Ga Tech
   # ESnet
      * Joe: nearly done with security review
      * Brian: UDP testing
   # SLAC
      * Jarad: nothing to update. Interested in feedback on gmaps.
   # FNAL
      * Maxim: helping Tier-2's deploy performance nodes.
   # MCNC
 # Prioritize brain-storm goals from last meeting. (Time frame is next 6-12 mo)
     * Community defined measurement meshes.
     * Community defined dashboards/analysis.
     * ML or Spectrum gateways or RealTime alarms.
       * Persistent queries
     * Test framework
       * scalability
       * reliability
     * traceroute MA/MP
       * BGP MA?
     * How do multiple meshes interact? (BCP?)
     * Focus on deployments/production
       * GUIs
       * How do you use these tools to actually debug problems?
     * GUIs - easy to use, not demoware!
     * Installation usability
     * Need more user requirements?
       * Need to bring users the first good data GUIs, then we can iterate with users.
       * What specific visualizations do the users need? (First data must be there...)
    * First priority to work on until Jt Techs is 'usability' (stability and installation). Other priorities will be worked on in person at Jt Techs. Jeff will put a high-level road map up for discussion after this meeting.
 # SC
     * How much of the one-off coding can be turned into 'real' stuff?
       * wmap: Jason has something others can try. Joe and Maxim will try it. Joe will be looking at trying to do something similar to the visible-backbone but perfsonar driven.
       * wan-monitoring: Aaron said this is a couple of weeks away. John Graham might be a good user to attempt to work with on this.
 # Questions regarding gLS data displays - Brian
   # Should we advertise things that are only available to certain groups (e.g. NDT servers on Interent2 backbone are not reachable to home users - do we note this?  How?)
     * How do we manage expectations?
     * We will need ways to discern what data is available to write good GUIs, this issue is not just about the 'publicity' pages.
     * (Jeff suggestion: attack this problem by creating a GUI for actually addressing a specific performance problem - that GUI will need to figure this out...)
     * Action: Everyone please review RequirementsForDeploymentsCGI
 # PAM/CHEP paper status
   # Where to resubmit PAM paper and when - Brian/Martin
      * Brian: Need something with a results section. Previous paper can be an LBL tech report.
      * Lots of discussion on places to publish, and reasons for publishing.
   # Important Dates for CHEP - Maxim
      * Maxim: Chep paper should be about usefulness of perfSONAR for LHC community.
 # Next meeting will be Jan 26, 2:30 pm Eastern Time (Issue call on release mgmt)

== Where ==

ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS:  00113498255555
 * phone: 1-510-883-7860  then 8255555# at the prompt.

== Last Updated ==

$Id$