=  March 23, 2009 Conference Call 2:30 pm EST =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees: 
   * Jason
   * Marcos
   * Joe
   * Brian
   * Rich
   * Maxim
   * Aaron
   * Martin
 # Circuit Monitoring
   * Joe/Aaron/Jeff have been discussing this issue on the mailing list.  
   * Joe: Wants to be careful we do not try to build from scratch, should be trying to use as much of what the EU has contributed as possible.  Need to worry about interoperating especially on legacy systems that would not upgrade.
   * Aaron: Old topology in use for E2Emon systems was not flexible (especially for what we want to do down the road with IS activities and more efficient queries).  Hard to go between old and new.
   * Joe: Agrees there are problems, but we need to show how any new method is an evolution of the old (not starting new).  We need to move forward by making better - not re-inventing.  Most looks ok.  Has a concern about the demarc issue (e.g. which side monitors something that is shared).  
   * Aaron: Sent out email talking about this.  Will always be some overlap to worry about, have _point of view_ for circuits.  
   * Joe and All would like more examples.  Aaron will provide.     
 # perfSONAR-PS v3.1 Release Update
   * See [pSPS20090327Release] for details
     * Check individual progress.
       * Jason - Writing tests cases and documentation
       * Aaron - Same
       * Maxim - same
       * All three will alert when doc is ready for reviewers
       * Alpha testing this week
       * Beta testing next week
       * Maxim can wait to implement changes suggested in aarons code review 
     * Code reviews by the 20th.
       * See the reviews here: [pSPS20090327Release#Code_Review_Reviews] 
       * _*COMPLETED*_
         * Maxim
         * Guilherme
         * Brian
         * Joe
         * Marcos
         * Jason
         * Aaron
       * _*MISSING BUT EXCUSED*_
         * Jeff
     * Documentation Reviews
       * Developers Finish (3/27)
       * Reviews Due (4/3)
     * Open Bugs are all now closed or held over
       * _19_ - _*Aaron/Maxim*_ - ~~PingER GUI gLS pingable hosts~~  
       * _73_ - _*Jason*_ - ~~Client::LS Registration Logic Re-arrange~~
         * Addressed, but held over till 3.1+    
       * _79_ - _*Jason*_ - ~~Empty gLS/hLS Messages~~
       * _84_ - _*Jason*_ - ~~Exit MA service if no data is present~~    
       * _85_ - _*Jason*_ - ~~add verbose logging on errors for ma/ls~~
       * _105_ - _*Jason*_ - ~~hLS Summarization of DCN Data~~
         * Held over for 3.1+
       * _109_ - _*Jason*_ - ~~gLS Discovery of IP Addresses~~
       * _110_ - _*Jason*_ - ~~perfSONAR-BUOY Data Query Error~~
       * _112_ - _*Jason*_ - ~~supportedEventType Examples for SNMP/pSB~~
       * _116_ - _*Jason*_ - ~~Migrate getRRDData to SNMP.pm~~
       * _62_ - _*Maxim*_ - ~~pingER-MA requires 'hostname" type attribute in endPointPair~~   
       * _66_ - _*Maxim*_ - ~~PingER Collection Errors~~   
       * _81_ - _*Maxim*_ - ~~PingER Resolution of IPaddress/Hostnames~~
 # Code Review Topics
   * Jason reads major areas to address for next time
   * Maxim points out that the params validate doesn't handle validation errors well (uses Carp, etc.).  Could try to extend work Yee did on error classes (use call backs).  Can investigate after release for next time.
   * Aaron/Maxim talk about script to generate POD (so that everyone keeps up with doc)
   * Maxim/Aaron discuss moving modules out of root of perfSONAR-PS lib.  Held over till SMM, but we should take action this time.
   * Segways into removing unnecessary code in general.  Need to be mindful of the _shared_ space.  Will require someone to physically do the cleaning.  
 # Other Topics
   * Maxim brings up that the documentation regarding the NPToolkit is scattered and also not geared to the proper audience at times.  
   * Would like to see things better organized.  Currently there are many individual pages that answer some questions, but need a true step by step guide for the absolute beginner.  
   * Jason Points out [NPToolkitQuickStart]
   * Rich/Jason/Maxim discuss what some groups (like USAtlas) do.  These groups usually maintain their own specific documentation and suggestions and point to ours when necessary.
   * Joe points out that it will be up to communities to keep up, we can only do so much.
 # Next meeting will be 3/30

=== ACTIONS ===

 * Jason
   * Packaging Finalization
   * Documentation Finalization 
   * Beta Testing
 * Marcos
   * IP Summarization
   * Doc Reviews
   * Beta Testing
 * Guilherme
   * Doc Reviews
   * Beta Testing
 * Joe
   * Doc Reviews
   * Beta Testing
 * Brian
   * Doc Reviews
   * Beta Testing
 * Maxim
   * Figure out changes to make NPToolkit documentation easier to follow
   * Packaging Finalization
   * Documentation Finalization 
   * Doc Reviews
   * Beta Testing
 * Aaron
   * Update Examples for circuit status
   * Packaging Finalization
   * Documentation Finalization 
   * Doc Reviews
   * Beta Testing
 * Martin 
 * Jeff
   * pSB Development
   * Doc Reviews
   * Read CHEP - Give Maxim Feedback   

== Where ==

ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS:  00113498255555
 * phone: 1-510-883-7860  then 8255555# at the prompt.

