=  April 29,30 pS-PS Agenda =

<wiki:toc max_depth="6" />

== pS Agenda ==

=== Wednesday ===
 # 2:00 (0:30) Release Process (Jason)
   * Release Process
     * Overall comments
     * Potential changes
   * 3.1 Release
     * RC Status
     * Testing Status
     * Next RC?
     * Post-mortum planned for VC in May.
   * Future Releases
     * 3.1+
     * 3.2
 # 2:30 (1:00) Software Architecture (Jeff)
   * One goal is to unify more of the code base.
   * Another goal is to make it easy for new developers to create a service to provide a new kind of performance data.
   * Common config file interfaces
   * Common daemon (mod-perl/Apache)
   * [What else needs to be common - please add into agenda here]
 # 3:30 (1:00) pS-Performance node (Aaron)
   * pS-NPToolkit roadmap
     * Change of defaults (iperf buffer/duration)
     * What functions *must* be in the next release
     * Fedora transition
   * software.internet2.edu yum repo
     * Mirrors? (Regionals, ESnet?)
   * pS-Performance Grid
=== Thursday ===
 # 8:30 (1:00) Project Roadmap (Jeff)
   * Political landscape (IRNC, GENI, CTP, Regionals, Labs, LHC)
   * Project scalability
   * Community Outreach Milestones (including demos)
   * Documentation Milestones
     * Web-site cleanup/orgainization
     * Availability of protocols/schemas
   * Software Milestones
 # 9:30 (1:00) pS protocols (Martin)
   * Strategy for publishing standards (IRNC etc...)
     * Start with de-facto (as-builts)
     * Engage OGF process
 # 10:30 (0:30) gLS: Current System Arch (Jason)
   * Slides
     * [http://perfsonar-ps.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/20090429Meet/dev_ls.ppt]
     * [http://perfsonar-ps.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/20090429Meet/dev_gls.ppt]
     * [http://perfsonar-ps.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/20090429Meet/dev_issues.ppt]
   * hLS mode
   * gLS overlay/root servers
   * Summary of current Summarization
   * Distribution - discovery phase
   * Query
   * Timing issues
     * Synchronization of root gLSs
     * Refresh of registrations
     * Refresh of summaries
   * API
     * Bootstrapping
   * Percieved limitations
     * Stability (XMLDB dies...)
     * Performance (XMLDB/Summarization)
     * IPTree (v4 only)
     * Inflexible discovery for new data/event types
 # 11:00 (1:00) gLS: Transition to IS (Martin/Marcos)
   * Address current limitations as much as possible
   * Topology distribution within summarization
   * Authoritative data
   * New IPTree summaries
 # 12:00 (0:30) Lunch
 # 12:30 (0:15) gLS: Test Plan (Brian)
   * Scalability testing (See: http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/wiki/TestPlan#Service_Specific)
 # 12:45 (0:30) gLS: Roadmap (Jeff)
   * Specific enhancements for 3.2
 # 1:15 (0:30) Auth use-case discussion (Andy)
 # 1:45 (0:30) MA protocol enhancements (Brian)
   * Addition of 'limit' option to MA/MP queries (on by default)
   * Addition of metadata queries to MA (i.e.: what interfaces have new data in past T?)
   * Addition of TTL negotiation to LS registration
 # 2:15 (1:00) Configuration Management (Joe)
   * Problem statement
     * use-cases
   * Current range of solutions
   * List of effected software packages
 # 3:15 (1:00) Meta-scheduler (???)
   * Single node scheduling among tools
   * Shared link/resource scheduling
 # 4:15 (0:30) GUI Development (???)
   * What APIs should we be providing?
     * Current messages good enough?

== Last Modified ==

$Id$
