=  Sept 21 2009 Conference Call 2:30 pm EDT =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees: Jason, Rich, Aaron, Joe, Brian, Jeff, Maxim
 # Team Updates:
    * Jason: Focusing on OGF documents. Final release candidate going out this week. Performance problems with RC4 bwctl.
    * Rich: Trying to close out JET/LSN perfSONAR deployment plan. Rich's last day will be at the end of FMM week, he is moving on to DOE. Good luck Rich!
    * Aaron: Looking at performance issues with bandwidth tests. It looks likely that this is a network driver issue (potentially a VMI issue as well). Also working on performance monitoring in the ION interface.
    * Joe: DICE meeting update.
    * Brian: Helping look at RC's. Fully deployed OWAMP on ESnet. Testing of cache.pl script.
    * Maxim: Finishing up RPMs with 2 binary rpms. One 32-bit, one 64-bit.
    * Jeff: dice update and roadmap things added to the agenda.
 # Previous Actions

    * Joe will send request for implementation specific web sites in perfsonar.net space.
    * Joe will send email to EU participants to find out who will be at DICE meeting.
    * Brian will work with Marcos, Martin and perhaps Joe on [LSScalabilityInvestigation scalability testing] of the hLS/gLS.

 # Release Activities
   * Next RC coming out Friday. Looking at throughput performance problem.  Need to discuss bug-release schedules.
 # Updating of roadmap: http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/wiki/PPStrawMan
   * Jeff asked that everyone review the roadmap and open issues so we can create a new roadmap for the next 6-12 months.
 # Review of DICE meeting
    * Joe: Overall went well, still concerned about methodology/goals across atlantic.
 # Update from the ecenter project
    * FNAL/ESnet working together on portal to pS data. Working on 1st year milestones. Main task for ESnet will be to add traceroute data to all bwctl/iperf results so you know the path for the test. FNAL milestones will be on creating prototypes to show multiple paths with traceroute and will likely include analysis. It will allow collaboration as well.
 # LSScalability testing update
 # LHC/Atlas deployments (status update)
    * Waiting for the final release. Will install at the testing sites soon. Will have others install within a week if all goes well.
 # Future topics:
   * Google MLab
     * It would be great if we could start registering all these nodes in pS.
     * LS archive for finding an NDT server. How do you know what things are available 'publicly' or not.
     * Pushing to make the MLab data available. It would be great if we could provide a pS interface for them.
   * NSF request to fund a workshop for perfSONAR.
     * How would a researcher use pS to fulfill research goals?
     * How do you get tool developers to publish via pS?
     * NSF will be creating a steering committee for this workshop.
     * Hopefully NSF is interested in funding pS.
   * Service Monitoring and Config management
     * gLS 'monitoring'
  * Status collection for low-level device PMs
    The DCN status page that was put together for the monitoring is a relatively simple collector that grabs various performance counters and other data about elements on the Cienas. Right now, it confines itself to things that look like interfaces. There's a similar project that Jon Dugan has been working on for ESnet called ESxSNMP that grabs performance counters for SNMP hosts. It would be good to have a discussion about how these two monitoring infrastructures might work together. At minimum, it might be feasible to get the TL1 monitoring components to use the same metadata database and counter databases, and, implicitly, perfsonar interface.
    = =
    Another possible area of discussion include how the monitoring above can be extended to support collection and storage of topological information. The topology information could include how interfaces are connected together internally in the switch/router (via cross-connects, adaptation or whatever). It might also be good to think about how to collect information about how switches/routers are wired together.
    = =
    It'd be feasible to grab and store TL1/SNMP alarms as part of the collection framework. Though, that might be more reasonably done via nagios plugins.
    = =
    Currently in the regular testing setup screen, if a user doesn't specify a 'community', the node can not be found. We need to figure out a way to 'find' these nodes. Is there a reasonable way to 'find' them? (Perhaps if there is no 'community' specificied, it should get a 'default' of some kind?)
 # Next VC will be 9/28 2:30 EDT.

=== ACTIONS ===
    * Brian will check on bug/svn procedures.
    * Jeff will update the 'java' issue tracker.

== Where ==

ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS:  00113498255555
 * phone: 1-510-883-7860  then 8255555# at the prompt.
