=  April 06, 2009 Conference Call 2:30 pm EST =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees:
   * Jason
   * Aaron
   * Joe
   * Rich
   * Marcos
 # perfSONAR-PS v3.1 Release Update
   * See [pSPS20090327Release] for details
     * Check individual progress.
       * JZ: All software to be released has been reviewed.  Betas are being generated and tested internally 
     * Documentation Reviews
       * Developers Finish (3/27)
         * JZ: All developers have completed this.  _User_ guides are still outstanding, but will have to be a work in progress for the next couple of weeks.
       * Reviews Due (4/3)
         * JZ: Did not receive all reviews on time.  AB/JZ reviewed the remaining items to make the deadline.  Will still need reviewers after the _user_ documentation is complete
     * Uploading to repository
       * AB/JZ have access, Maxim is still on vacation (will ask him if he wants access to rpm/source repo).  
     * Testing
       * Testing Procedure
         * JZ has a list of interested parties to send testers to.  Should test locally first (on as many different OS/Arch combinations as possible).  Testing should focus on:
           # Install Procedure vs instructions
           # Install success on specific OS/Architectures
           # Configuration vs instructions
           # WS Test cases included in the package
           # Other factors (firewall configuration, etc.)
 # Other Issues
   # Wiki-reorg
     * There were no objections to cleaning the wiki
   # [IPSummarization] Comments
     * JM/MP talked about recent comments on IS-WG mailing list.
     * JM would like to see goals/metrics listed that are used to evaluate one summarization alg. vs another.  Has suggestions:
       # ratio of entries in result over entries in initial set (e.g. compression)
       # ratio of unique IP addresses in initial set over unique IP addresses in result set (e.g. if we go from a /32 to a /31, we have increased the number we are claiming by 255)
     * MP understands, and will try to describe the definition of _good_ summarization on the wiki for conversation.
     * AB cautions about hLSs advertising _false_ ranges (over summarizing) especially when dealing with data sets that are not continuous.  JZ explains that MP should be testing with _domain_ data sets (e.g. ESnet) but then combining 2 data sets (e.g. ESnet and APAN for example) to see how the alg. behaves.
     * JM closes with a statement about accuracy when collapsing IP blocks (adjacent blocks = good, non = troublesome)
   # Circuit Monitoring update
     * Status of exmples (aaron)
       * AB reports no change since last time
   # SNMP-MA ESnet new database integration update
     * JM is not aware of progress, but that doesn't mean there isn't any.  
     * JM is pretty sure Jon will make it to DC, we can discuss this topic during the meeting.
     * JM wants to ensure we deal with diet constraints for the meeting.  JZ has action of sending out something.  
   # LHC/Atlas deployments (status update)
     * RC reports that things are going about the same as before, still waiting on BNL to be _fixed_.
     * JZ notes that REDDnet folks are happy Ultralight is in working order again.
 # Next meeting will be 4/13

=== ACTIONS ===

 * *MP*: Update [IPSummarization] based on email/conference call suggestions
 * *JZ*: Coordinate testing
 * *JZ*: Send out lunch email for F2F meeting for diet constraints
 * *AB*: Update Circuit Examples
 * *All*: Review documentation

== Where ==

ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS:  00113498255555
 * phone: 1-510-883-7860  then 8255555# at the prompt.

