=  May 10 2010 Conference Call 2:30 p.m. EDT =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees:
   * Joe, Aaron, Jason, Andy, Jeff, Eric, Brian, Ahmed
 # Excused:
   * Maxim
     * Issue with pinger MP hanging on ATLAS boxes is resolved _again_
     * will require extra re-factoring of the MP scheduler code to address issue when tests are scheduled too close (less than 5 minutes)
 # Followup on previous actions:
   * _*ACTION*_: Ahmed to continue testing with replay and will look for areas of the application that are causing database deadlocks.
   * _*ACTION*_: Brian will send out the latest nl_cpu.
   * _*ACTION*_: Brian will install nl_cpu on ESnet gls host.
   * _*ACTION*_: ~~Jason will install new nl_cpu on Internet2 gls host.~~
     * Complete 5/3/2010
   * _*ACTION*_: Jason will test the new cache.pl changes and install if there are no problems.
   * _*ACTION*_: Joe will propose SOP for production global infrastructure.
   * _*ACTION*_: Jeff will look at the toolkit plan to evaluate dependencies and timelines. Joe and/or Brian will also look at this aspect.
   * _*ACTION*_: Aaron will more fully describe the requirements to support upgrading a toolkit host.
 # Nagios (Andy)
   * Andy created a wiki page for evaluating nagios plugins. [ http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/wiki/NagiosPlanning ] Andy reviewed the proposed plugins.
 # pSPT 3.2 Status (Aaron/Eric)
   * Current work has been on build environment and web-config GUI interface. Web-config GUI work has gone better than expected. 
 
=== ACTIONS ===

   * _*ACTION*_: Jason will follow up on pingER issues.
   * _*ACTION*_: Ahmed to continue testing with replay and will look for areas of the application that are causing database deadlocks.
   * _*ACTION*_: Jason will test the new cache.pl changes and install if there are no problems.
   * _*ACTION*_: Joe will propose SOP for production global infrastructure.
   * _*ACTION*_: Jeff will look at the toolkit plan to evaluate dependencies and timelines. Joe and/or Brian will also look at this aspect.
   * _*ACTION*_: Aaron will more fully describe the requirements to support upgrading a toolkit host. (Include config file dependency analysis.)
   * _*ACTION*_: Everyone: review proposed nagios plugin list and offer Andy feedback. [ http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/wiki/NagiosPlanning ] 
   * _*ACTION*_: Everyone: review issue tracker and email a list of the issues they think is critical for 3.2.

== Where ==

ESnet conference bridge:

 * GDS: 00113498255555
 * Direct Dial:  mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-883-7860 then 8255555# at the prompt. 
