=  Aug 30 2010 Conference Call 2:30 p.m. EDT =
== Agenda/Minutes ==
 # Attendees:
   * Andy, Eric, Somya, Jeff, Maxim, Jason, Aaron, Kavitha
 # Followup on previous actions:
   * _*ACTION*_: Ahmed will test both the gLS/hLS with no transactions.
   * _*ACTION*_: Joe will take SOP to DICE.
   * _*ACTION*_: Andy will document the performance issues he is seeing with querying pS-B and Jeff will review.
   * _*ACTION*_: Jeff will arrange for a future call to focus on 3.3 priorities. Aim for a half day VC the second week of Sept.
   * _*ACTION*_: All - Review release wiki page to determine if any are critical for 3.2. [pSPT32Release]
   * _*ACTION*_: Jeff and Aaron will discuss how the tcp options will be set for 3.2 with Tom.
 # Team Updates
   * Andy: working on a traceroute mp that reads the owmesh.conf file, and works with pS-B. Illinois university having perf issues.
   * Eric: Nothing
   * Somya: Working on creating rpms for nagios plugins. Still working on dependency issues.
   * Jeff: Nothing
   * Maxim: Nothing
   * Jason: Added ganglia MA. Added/Edited messages for pS-B as examples to answer EU questions. Atlas will monitor T2 sites with Nagios at BNL. Atlas still having perf problems with OU.
   * Aaron: Debugging throughput performance for Atlas/pS-PTK. Will cover later durinng release update.
   * Kavitha: Nothing
 # pS-PTK 3.2 release update (Jason/Aaron)
   * Major issue is that 3.2 throughput performance is not as good.
     * nic driver change and tcp options changes didn't help
     * may be interrupt balancing in the kernel.
     * will attempt to disable kernel interrupt balancing on a bnl 3.1.3 host
     * will attempt to enable kernel interrupt balancing on 3.2 and test
 # Next call will be 9/13
=== ACTIONS ===
   * _*ACTION*_: Ahmed will test both the gLS/hLS with no transactions.
   * _*ACTION*_: Joe will take SOP to DICE.
   * _*ACTION*_: Andy will document the performance issues he is seeing with querying pS-B and Jeff will review.
   * _*ACTION*_: Jeff will arrange for a future call to focus on 3.3 priorities. Aim for a half day VC the second week of Sept.
   * _*ACTION*_: All - Review release wiki page to determine if any are critical for 3.2. [pSPT32Release]
   * _*ACTION*_: Jeff and Aaron will discuss how the tcp options will be set for 3.2 with Tom.
== Where ==
ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS: 00113498255555
 * Direct Dial:  mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-883-7860 then 8255555# at the prompt. 
