=  June 14 2010 Conference Call 2:30 p.m. EDT =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees:
   * TBD
 # Followup on previous actions:
   * _*ACTION*_: Maxim will verify his check script helps and continue watching for the pinger issues.
   * _*ACTION*_: Ahmed will test both the gLS/hLS with no transactions.
   * _*ACTION*_: Joe will add monitoring expectations to the SOP for production global infrastructure. Criteria for adding/removing gLSs from the hints files. Bringing this topic to DICE.
   * _*ACTION*_: Jeff will look at the toolkit plan to evaluate dependencies and timelines. Joe and/or Brian will also look at this aspect.
   * _*ACTION*_: Andy will update on the group on the Nagios development.
   * _*ACTION*_: Everyone: review issue tracker and email a list of the issues they think is critical for 3.2.
   * _*ACTION*_: Andy will document the performance issues he is seeing with querying pS-B and Jeff will review.
   * _*ACTION*_: Jason will update [IndexStrategies Indexing Strategies] based on comments
 # Team updates
 # Release update
 
=== ACTIONS ===

 * _*ACTION*_: TBD.

== Where ==

ESnet conference bridge:

 * GDS: 00113498255555
 * Direct Dial:  mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-883-7860 then 8255555# at the prompt. 
