=  May 17 2010 Conference Call 2:30 p.m. EDT =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees:
   * Marcos, Maxim, Brian, Ahmed, Andy, Joe, Jason, Aaron, Kavitha, Jeff, Wei Ping
 # Followup on previous actions:
   * _*ACTION*_: Jason will follow up on pingER issues.
       * Maxim has created a check script that will restart pinger if it fails.
   * _*ACTION*_: Ahmed to continue testing with replay and will look for areas of the application that are causing database deadlocks.
       * Ahmed is attempting to try using xmldb with no transactions.
   * _*ACTION*_: Jason will test the new cache.pl changes and install if there are no problems.
   * _*ACTION*_: Joe will propose SOP for production global infrastructure.  http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/wiki/GlobalInfrastructureMaintenanceSOP
        * Joe has a first draft.
   * _*ACTION*_: Jeff will look at the toolkit plan to evaluate dependencies and timelines. Joe and/or Brian will also look at this aspect.
   * _*ACTION*_: Aaron will more fully describe the requirements to support upgrading a toolkit host. (Include config file dependency analysis.)
        * Aaron has a new document linked to from the dev plan showing this.
   * _*ACTION*_: Everyone: review proposed nagios plugin list and offer Andy feedback. [ http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/wiki/NagiosPlanning ] 
   * _*ACTION*_: Everyone: review issue tracker and email a list of the issues they think is critical for 3.2.
 # Discussion of how to filter owamp data (Brian)
   * The current owamp plots shows lots of large spikes that are due to network activity on the host, not due to actual network latency. We need a way to filter this out.
   * My proposed solution: modify delayGraph.cgi to compute the 95th percentile (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Percentile)  and the median of the data returned, and not show any value above the 95th percentile (or optionally replace all values greater than the 95th percentile with the median value) when generating the graph
   * Future enhancements to this solution should include:
       * write a client API where various types of filtering are built into the API
       * store a daily? histogram and the median in the database, so that they can be queried, and not recomputed every time (or maybe a running histogram of the last 7 days?)
   * Q: Who should do this?
 # [IndexingStrategies Indexing Strategies] (Jason/Aaron/Jeff)
   * Tabled to next week.
 
=== ACTIONS ===

   * _*ACTION*_: Maxim will verify his check script helps and continue watching for the pinger issues.
   * _*ACTION*_: Ahmed will test both the gLS/hLS with no transactions.
   * _*ACTION*_: Joe will add monitoring expectations to the SOP for production global infrastructure. Criteria for adding/removing gLSs from the hints files. Bringing this topic to DICE.
   * _*ACTION*_: Jeff will look at the toolkit plan to evaluate dependencies and timelines. Joe and/or Brian will also look at this aspect.
   * _*ACTION*_: Andy will update on the group on the Nagios development.
   * _*ACTION*_: Everyone: review issue tracker and email a list of the issues they think is critical for 3.2.
   * _*ACTION*_: Jason will modify the delayGraph.cgi GUI so OWAMP 'max' data is no longer plotted for 3.2.
   * _*ACTION*_: Andy will document the performance issues he is seeing with querying pS-B and Jeff will review.


== Where ==

ESnet conference bridge:

 * GDS: 00113498255555
 * Direct Dial:  mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-883-7860 then 8255555# at the prompt. 
