=  Aug 2 2010 Conference Call 2:30 p.m. EDT =
== Agenda/Minutes ==
 # Attendees:
   *  Andy, Somya, Joe, Brian, Jason, Eric, Marcos, Aaron, Kavitha, Jeff
 # Followup on previous actions:
   * _*ACTION*_: Maxim, Jason and Aaron will incorporate pinger check script into release 3.2. (Sub-action: Aaron will check with Maxim on this.)
   * _*ACTION*_: Ahmed will test both the gLS/hLS with no transactions.
   * _*ACTION*_: Brian will followup with BNL to see why lhcmon.bnl.gov is not showing up in the LS infrastructure.
     * Reboot seems to have fixed the problem.
   * _*ACTION*_: Joe will send out the SOP expectations to the list to see if everyone on this list agrees. If we are in agreement in pS-PS, Joe will take it to DICE.
   * _*ACTION*_: Andy will document the performance issues he is seeing with querying pS-B and Jeff will review.
   * _*ACTION*_: Jason will update [IndexStrategies Indexing Strategies] based on comments
   * _*ACTION*_: Jason will verify there are no more outstanding tasks in the issue tracker for toolkit 3.2.
      * Everything should be up to date in the tracker.
   * _*ACTION*_: Brian and Andy will test toolkit 3.2rc1.
      * Done
   * _*ACTION*_: Andy will work on packaging the Nagios checks.
   * _*ACTION*_: Andy will evaluate the current traceroute rnc file and the rfc to determine what schema the tracerouteMA should use. Compatibility is the goal.
 # Release update (Jason/Aaron/Tom)
   * 13 betatesters have been targeted. Atlas will be primary for testing upgrade proceedures. Also testing pS-B backup scripts. Trying to determine how many of outstanding issues can be handled with this release.
 # Install DVD (Brian)
   * Removing from the 3.2 requirements. Will release with 3.2.1.
 # Nagios Plugin Update (Andy)
   * Started deploying on ESnet. Andy has identified a problem with pS-B keep-alive requests to the hLS after the hLS services are restarted.
 # Next call will be 8/16
=== ACTIONS ===
   * _*ACTION*_: Maxim, Jason and Aaron will incorporate pinger check script into release 3.2. (Sub-action: Aaron will check with Maxim on this.)
   * _*ACTION*_: Ahmed will test both the gLS/hLS with no transactions.
   * _*ACTION*_: Joe will send out the SOP expectations to the list to see if everyone on this list agrees. If we are in agreement in pS-PS, Joe will take it to DICE.
   * _*ACTION*_: Andy will document the performance issues he is seeing with querying pS-B and Jeff will review.
   * _*ACTION*_: Jason will update [IndexStrategies Indexing Strategies] based on comments
   * _*ACTION*_: Andy will evaluate the current traceroute rnc file and the rfc to determine what schema the tracerouteMA should use. Compatibility is the goal.
   * _*ACTION*_: Jason will talk with Maxim to determine what can be done to fix the pingER GUI and will discuss the results with Atlas to determine if there will be user concerns.
   * _*ACTION*_: Andy and/or Somya will deploy nagios checks against ESnet and Ineternet2 gLSs
== Where ==
ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS: 00113498255555
 * Direct Dial:  mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-883-7860 then 8255555# at the prompt. 
