=  Nov 29 2010 Conference Call 2:30 p.m. EDT =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees: Andy, Marcos, Nils, Sowmya, Brian, Jeff, Joe, Aaron, Maxim
 # Followup on previous actions:
   * _*ACTION*_: Jason will continue exploring the non-transaction method for opening xmldb. He will also look into timing the operations to see if this will increase performance as well.
   * _*ACTION*_: Joe will take SOP to DICE.
     * Issues have been put in the diagnostic service description document, and we should continue to follow up there.
   * _*ACTION*_: Andy will document the performance issues he is seeing with querying pS-B and Jeff will review.
     * Will be resolved by work Sowmya is doing on testservice.cgi.
   * _*ACTION*_: Jeff will arrange for a future call to focus on 3.3 priorities. After SC.
 # Developers Update
   * Andy: Wiki page describing owamp buckets. Looking at traceroute MA configuration file issues. Looking at adding filter-chaining into the traceroute MA to allow for hop selection.
   * Marocs: No update
   * Nils: No update
   * Sowmya: Working on owamp bucket addition to the pS-B MA.
   * Brian: BWCTL mods to allow different congestion control algs.
   * Joe: Need to get the diagnostic service document completed by the end of the month.
   * Aaron: Deployed a lot of pS for measurement at SC. (bwctl/owamp/traceroute) Lots of displays showing pS data: weathermap etc...
   * Maxim: Trying to debug gLS problem with local service crashing.
   * Jeff:  No update

 # Next call will be Dec 6.

=== ACTIONS ===
   * _*ACTION*_: Jeff will arrange for a future call to focus on 3.3 priorities. After SC.
   * _*ACTION*_: Jeff will review owamp buckets description written by Andy.
   * _*ACTION*_: Brian will put status of bwctl changes in issue tracker so unfinished tasks can be prioritized.

== Where ==

ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS: 00113498255555
 * Direct Dial:  mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-883-7860 then 8255555# at the prompt. 
