=  Jan 25 2010 Marathon Conference Call 1:00 p.m. EDT =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees: Marcos, Andy, Brian, Aaron, Inder, Jason, Eric, Joe, Maxim, Jeff, Martin, Ezra
 # Topics for discussion:
   * Roadmap discussion
      * http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/wiki/PsPsRoadMap
      * Jeff/Brian/Joe
   * Software Architecture and Protocol directions
      * Improving the software-service architecture
         * Increasing code reuse
         * High-level style guidelines
         * goal: increase modularity and code reuse
         * example: shouldn't need to create a new service to make a new metric available
         * Aaron/Eric/Andy
      * Ensuring compatibility between clients and services
         * Inder/Aaron/Andy
      * Merging the TS/LS protocols, and implementation/adoption
         * XML-DB? Organize TS so it is more distributable.
         * Martin/Eric
      * Programming language direction going forward
         * Lots of new programmers, some of different language interests
         * Advantages/Disadvantages of current possibilities
         * Aaron/Maxim/Eric
      * Easing outside development of clients and GUIs as well as development of new services
         * What is needed to support client developers?
         * Use cases
         * Inder/Jason/Andy
   * gLS/hLS performance and scaling
      * Testing shows scalability issues
      * Potential solutions
      * Brian/Martin/Eric/Jason
   * Traceroute integration with owamp/bwctl
      * Andy/Jeff
   * LiveCD transition
     * Goal: What should we do: upgrade to LiveCD, or upgrade to 5.0?
     * [http://lists.debian.org/debian-security-announce/2010/msg00010.html|Debian security support for v. 4.0 (etch) is being EOL'ed on Feb 15th]
       * Options:
         * Upgrade to 5.0, not a trivial task for a bugfix release.
         * Use [http://www.backports.org/dokuwiki/doku.php|backports] where we can, manually port major security releases
       * Need to determine an EOL time range ourselves based on 3.2 development and community acceptance
     * Aaron/Joe
   * Configuration GUI architecture
     * Goal: User perspective - what do they want to do? Architect config tool around that instead of from the OS perspective.
     * Aaron/Andy/Maxim
   * Testing plateform
      * How many versions, OSs, etc...
      * Eric/Brian/Jason
   * Nagios integration into the pS-Perf-Tk
     * Goal: What alarms/alerts should be configured in for the next release. And how that is implemented and configured.
     * Alarms for services
     * Alarms based on data analysis
     * Brian/Jason
   * Circuit Monitoring
     * Aaron/Ezra
   * Wmap - Flashy GUIs
     * What is needed, what is low hanging fruit?
     * Joe/Jeff
   * Client APIs and Documentation
     * What use cases do we want the documentation to support?
     * Brian

== Where ==

ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS:  00113498255555
 * phone: 1-510-883-7860  then 8255555# at the prompt.
