=  Sept 20 2010 Conference Call 2:30 p.m. EDT =
== Agenda/Minutes ==
 # Attendees:
   * Andy, Somya, Maxim, John, Ken, Marcos, Aaron, Kavitha, Nils, Jeff
 # Followup on previous actions:
   * _*ACTION*_: Ahmed will test both the gLS/hLS with no transactions.
   * _*ACTION*_: Joe will take SOP to DICE.
      * DICE meeting next week.
   * _*ACTION*_: Andy will document the performance issues he is seeing with querying pS-B and Jeff will review.
      * Will be resolved by work Somya is doing on testservice.cgi.
   * _*ACTION*_: Jeff will arrange for a future call to focus on 3.3 priorities.
   * _*ACTION*_: All - Review release wiki page to determine if any are critical for 3.2. [pSPT32Release]
   * _*ACTION*_: Jeff and Aaron will discuss how the tcp options will be set for 3.2 with Tom.
 # Team Updates
   * Andy: Working on traceroute MA and MP. In testing on ESnet hosts now. Going to add an option to bwctl/pS-B to configure how much of a delay to allow on iperf tests.
   * Somya: Working on nagios plugins rpm. Will ask Jason to test the nagios plugin to prepare it for Atlas.
   * Maxim: No update.
   * John: No update.
   * Ken: Looking to create a full penn-state mesh of internal pS-PTK deployment of several hosts. Will still have global hosts. Doing PXE boots.
   * Marcos: No update.
   * Aaron: Put out a new RC to determine if we have fixed the performance degradation.
   * Kavitha: No update.
   * Jeff: DICE meeting next week. Please send any topics and issues you may be concerned about.
 # Release Update (Aaron/Jason)
 # Traceroute Queries and what really is metadata? (Andy)
   * Andy sent email to ask advise on how to query for interior hops in the data. There are two aspects to this: 1) what is the best method to use in querying the MA. 2) How can this interact with the gLS infrastructure to allow global queries such as - who has traceroute data for any path that crosses router X?. Aaron suggested the filter-chaining structure is appropriate for the MA queries. Jeff suggested that data with topological references could be pulled out as metadata for service summarization.
   * Jeff suggested that Andy write up these issues a bit more and engage Martin in finding reasonable solutions.
 # Next call will be 10/4
=== ACTIONS ===
   * _*ACTION*_: Ahmed will test both the gLS/hLS with no transactions.
   * _*ACTION*_: Jeff will arrange for a future call to focus on 3.3 priorities.
   * _*ACTION*_: Jeff and Aaron will discuss how the tcp options will be set for 3.2 with Tom.
   * _*ACTION*_: Andy and Aaron will work together to determine if traceroute MP/MA can be installed on SCinet test hosts.
== Where ==
ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS: 00113498255555
 * Direct Dial:  mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-883-7860 then 8255555# at the prompt. 
