=  Dec 13 2010 Conference Call 2:30 p.m. EDT =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees: Aaron, Andy, Sowmya, Joe, Jeff, Nils
 # Followup on previous actions:
   * _*ACTION*_: Jeff will arrange for a future call to focus on 3.3 priorities. After SC.
      * Brian has started a page to discuss this.
      * Jeff will put up a doodle poll to pick a time the week of Jan 24.
   * _*ACTION*_: Jeff will review owamp buckets description written by Andy.
      * Looked good.
   * _*ACTION*_: Brian will put status of bwctl changes in issue tracker so unfinished tasks can be prioritized.
      * Done
   * _*ACTION*_: Jason will continue exploring the non-transaction method for opening xmldb. He will also look into timing the operations to see if this will increase performance as well.
 # Review 3.3 wishlist document
   * http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/wiki/pSPT33_Notes
   * Need a more long term roadmap to start, and then can bring it back to what we include in 3.3.
   * Need visualization for tracerouteMA.
   * How often should we be doing releases? What time frame should 3.3 come out?
 # Next call will be Jan 3.

=== ACTIONS ===
   * _*ACTION*_: Jeff will arrange for a future call to focus on 3.3 priorities. After SC.
   * _*ACTION*_: Jason will continue exploring the non-transaction method for opening xmldb. He will also look into timing the operations to see if this will increase performance as well.

== Where ==

ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS: 00113498255555
 * Direct Dial:  mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-883-7860 then 8255555# at the prompt. 
