=  Oct 04 2010 Conference Call 2:30 p.m. EDT =
== Agenda/Minutes ==
 # Attendees:
 # Followup on previous actions:
   * _*ACTION*_: Ahmed will test both the gLS/hLS with no transactions.
   * _*ACTION*_: Joe will take SOP to DICE.
      * DICE meeting next week.
   * _*ACTION*_: Andy will document the performance issues he is seeing with querying pS-B and Jeff will review.
      * Will be resolved by work Somya is doing on testservice.cgi.
   * _*ACTION*_: Jeff will arrange for a future call to focus on 3.3 priorities.
   * _*ACTION*_: All - Review release wiki page to determine if any are critical for 3.2. [pSPT32Release]
   * _*ACTION*_: Jeff and Aaron will discuss how the tcp options will be set for 3.2 with Tom.
 # Team Updates
 # Release Update (Aaron)
 # DICE Circuit Monitoring (Jeff/Aaron)
 # Next call will be 10/11
=== ACTIONS ===
== Where ==
ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS: 00113498255555
 * Direct Dial:  mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-883-7860 then 8255555# at the prompt. 
