#summary June 27th, 2011 Conference Call

=  June 27 2011 Conference Call 3:00 p.m. EDT =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees:
   * Nils, Aaron, Kavitha, Andy, Sowmya, Jason, Brian, Jeff, John, Maxim
 # Excused:
   * Joe
 # Followup on previous actions:
   * Short Term
     * _*ACTION*_: Jason will write more in the troubleshooting and collaborating documents.
     * _*ACTION*_: Sowmya to comment/change time estimates 3.2.1 issues.
        * done
     * _*ACTION*_: Joe and Jeff to do gap analysis for DICE docs.
     * _*ACTION*_: Sowmya will package owamp/bwctl plots for others to test.
        * Did one cycle through, going to take feedback and create a new rpm this week.
   * Long Term
     * _*ACTION*_: Nils will continue work on vmware build environment
     * _*ACTION*_: Andy will check out SLAC traceroute analysis. 
     * _*ACTION*_: Sowmya will do more performance analysis of XML generation.
     * _*ACTION*_: Brian/Jeff to work on pS-PS scheduling
     * _*ACTION*_: Sowmya will attempt to build X86-64 rpms

 # Team Updates
    * Nils: None
    * Aaron: Working on issues. Would like feedback on cacti.
    * Kavitha: None
    * Andy: Working on circuit monitoring - backporting to 0.5.3. Going to focus on open pS issues. Also working on v6 testing.
    * Sowmya: Working on owamp/bwctl plots. Build CentOS kernel for x86-64. Now will work on open issues.
    * Jason: Working to get pS service into Dynes deployments. Working with LHCONE on getting pS-PS nodes deployed for their use.
    * Brian: None
    * John: Working on a plan for ACE. Going to use sflow for accounting. Working with Neil McKee from Inmon.
    * Maxim: None
    * Jeff: We will be putting more effort into pS after Jt Techs.

 # Release planning
    * Still attempting an alpha release by Jt Techs. Brian will take a first cut at prioritizing within 3.2.1 issues for things critical to finish before an alpha release. Developers will accomplish as much as they can in the next 1.5 weeks. Idea is to cut an iso next week Wednesday with whatever can be done by then, and see if it is worth giving out to the community.

== Actions ==

   * Short Term
     * _*ACTION*_: Jason will write more in the troubleshooting and collaborating documents.
     * _*ACTION*_: Joe and Jeff to do gap analysis for DICE docs.
     * _*ACTION*_: Sowmya will work with Aaron to produce a 3.2.0.1 net install release.
     * _*ACTION*_: Jason will work with the NOC to make sure pS services are monitored.
     * _*ACTION*_: Jason will ask for more testers of 3.2.0.1. (Big complainers).
     * _*ACTION*_: Brian will re-prioritize 3.2.1 issues to outline critical ones for an alpha release.
   * Long Term
     * _*ACTION*_: Nils will continue work on vmware build environment
     * _*ACTION*_: Andy will check out SLAC traceroute analysis. 
     * _*ACTION*_: Sowmya will do more performance analysis of XML generation.
     * _*ACTION*_: Sowmya will attempt to build X86-64 rpms

== Where ==

<font color="red">Note the Conference Bridge Change!!!</font>

ESnet conference bridge:

 * GDS: 00113498555555
 * Direct Dial: mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-423-9220 then 8555555# at the prompt.


== Last Updated ==

$Id$
