#summary April 4th, 2011 Conference Call

=  April 4 2011 Conference Call 2:30 p.m. EDT =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees:
   * TBD
 # Excused:
   * Jason  
 # Followup on previous actions:
   * _*ACTION*_: Joe and Jeff to do gap analysis for DICE docs.  
   * _*ACTION*_: Jason to add labels to issue tracker for time estimates.  
   * _*ACTION*_: Brian to share some of the information about managing CMS at ESnet with Shibboleth.  
   * _*ACTION*_: Jeff to still ask about further use of SVN as a content management system for psps.perfsonar.net
   * _*ACTION*_: Kavitha/Sowyma/Joe to read Brian's documentation/Jason's Comments.
   * _*ACTION*_: Brian to migrate fasterdata content to Wiki
   * _*ACTION*_: Jason to integrate his comments into Brian's wiki pages + fasterdata content.  Work on additional doc in accordance with the proposal.  
   * _*ACTION*_: Nils and Sowmya will update the pS-PT build environment documentation and vmware image.
   * _*ACTION*_: Jeff and Brian will look through issue tracker to determine effort level and resources for 3.2.1 tagged items. 
   * _*ACTION*_: Andy will check out SLAC traceroute analysis. 
   * _*ACTION*_: Sowmya will do more performance analysis of XML generation.
 # Topic 1
 # Topic 2

== Actions ==

   * _*ACTION*_: 

== Where ==

ESnet conference bridge:

 * GDS: 00113498255555
 * Direct Dial:  mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-883-7860 then 8255555# at the prompt. 

== Last Updated ==

$Id:$
