#summary Jan 21, 2011 Conference Call

=  Jan 21 2011 Conference Call 1:00 p.m. EDT =

<wiki:toc max_depth="6" />

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees:
   * 
 # Topics
   # Release Topics
   # Visualization tools for the inter-noc diagnostic service ===
   # OWAMP Visualization
   # E-Center Update
   # 5 Minute Break
   # IRIS Update
   # PathMA Visualization
   # Circuit Monitoring
   # BWCTL Visualization

=== Release Topics === 

 * Presenter: Jason/Aaron
 * Time Alloted: 45 Mins
 * Topics to Cover:
   * Support, QA, Release Management Topics
   * Growing the Community through self service
   * 3.2.x
     * Issues Update
     * Release Schedule
     * Functionality Additions
   * 3.3
     * Issues Update
     * Development Priorities
     * Roadmap/Relsease Schedule
 * Materials: TBD
 * Notes:
 
==== 2011 Bug Review ====

The following audit was done to see where we stand on bugs.  Some are being moved up for a closer release date, others may be moving down.  Many are proposed to be closed.  The owners on some are being altered to balance the needs of the project.  

Please review before the call and let Jason know of any comments or concerns.  

===== 3.2.x =====

These are not organized into 3.2.1 vs 3.2.2 and beyond yet.  

 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=92 92] - Work on Use Cases to further develop 'deployments' reporting web pages
   * Moving up from 3.3.  Currrently assigned to Brian.  Is work done?  Can this be closed? * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=144 144] - disable buttons on the stats grpahs page for empty graphs
   * Moving up from 3.3.  Assign to Kavitha * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=160 160] - ESnet SNMP MA Enhancements
   * Not done (need to add more functionality).  
 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=172 172] - Add vmxnet module   * Moving up from 3.3.  Assign to Nils
 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=197 197] - bwctl plots: Verify X axis is scaled by time, and not array index
   * Assign to Sowmya
 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=224 224] - gLS API validation
   * Moving up from 3.3.  Assign to Jason.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=245 245] - negative latency from graph is counterintuitive. Should at least explain why it happens
   * Moving up 3.3.  Assign to Sowmya.   * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=266 266] - Firewall guidance
   * Assign to Nils, this is mostly a documentation (non software dev) task.   * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=282 282] - LinuxPPS Support
   * Assign to Nils * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=298 298] - Advanced Cacti data collection for localhost
   * Moving up from 3.3.  Assign to Sowmya.  Also roll in Cacti support for NTP Monitoring (developed by UMich/AGLT2 and used at SC).  Can create a new bug for this if necessary.   * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=303 303] - Improve CSS support for NPToolkit
   * Moving up from 3.3.  Assign to Sowmya.  Could just close if we can't find any problems w/ CSS display for major browsers/OSs.     * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=337 337] - Add multiple hosts to scheduled test
   * Move up from 3.3.  Assign to Kavitha * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=338 338] - owmesh parsing code in perfsonarbuoy_owp_collector needs better error checking
   * Move up from 3.3.  Assign to Kavitha
 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=348 348] - PSB Results Top & Bottom 10 lists
   * Assign to Sowyma
 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=352 352] - upgrade script for pSB databases
   * Aaron/Kavitha to investigate or close.   * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=369 369] - Testspec description recorded wrong in pSB database   * Move up from 3.3.  Aaron/Kavitha to investigate.  
 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=382 382] - Package for the client modules * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=424 424] - duplicate entries in pSB/bwctl mesh * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=425 425] - SNMP MA/Cacti Reports wrong capacity
   * Assigned to Aaron to verify and close.  
 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=429 429] - perfAdmin Time Select/Display Descrepency
   * Move up from 3.3.  Assign to Sowmya * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=430 430] - perfAdmin Pop-up/Tab Graph Behavior
   * Move up from 3.3.  Assign to Kavitha to reproduce for major browsers, if we can't please close. * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=433 433] - myricom driver isn't up to date * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=434 434] - pSB MA gets stuck on startup
   * Recommend we close.  
 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=437 437] - display MTU on web-gui
   * Move up from 3.3.  Assign to Kavitha * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=444 444] - Nagios Plug-In Packaging * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=446 446] - Add option to set timeout in Client::LS
   * Move up from 3.3.  Assign to Andy * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=447 447] - new version of nuttcp supported by the NPtoolkit
   * Move up from 3.3.  Assign to Nils/Aaron * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=451 451] - Upgrade NDT to 3.6.x lineage on the pSPT * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=453 453] - Document/Add addiional options to interface configuration
   * Assign to Nils, also mostly documentation. * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=460 460] - Toggle Time display in perfAdmin graphs
   * Move up from 3.3.  Assign to Sowmya * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=464 464] - Enhancemts to the Throughput/Latency Testing CGI Pages
   * Assign to Nils * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=465 465] - Security Scan of pSPT Releases * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=466 466] - Capitalization of bps in Utilization Schema * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=467 467] - ixgbe driver isn't up to date * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=468 468] - Additional Metadata Checks in NAGIOS Plugin * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=470 470] - bwctl/owamp limits gui doesn't support IPv6 addresses	 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=471 471] - owamp limits file on pSPT
 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=473 473] - Display NTP Status on the Local Services page
   * Assign to Nils.   
 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=475 475] - nagios scripts do not support web proxies

===== 3.3 =====

 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=73 73] - Client::LS Registration Logic Re-arrange
   * Related to 186 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=106 106] - bwmaster/bwcontroller: better logging support
   * Assign to Brian to help define what is still needed, or close * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=125 125] - testconf.pl: Print out description of exactly what tests are configured to run by an owmesh.conf file
   * Assign to Kavitha * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=149 149] - the TL1 status collector doesn't handle timeouts well * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=154 154] - hLS Topology Support * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=156 156] - need the ability to limit the size of the data returned
   * Assign to Andy/Sowmya * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=173 173] - Archive -i results from bwctl * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=183 183] - Address/Name Normalization in pSB
   * Possibly close?  * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=184 184] - ability to set peer_port and iperf_port using web config GUI
   * Possible raise in priority.   * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=186 186] - ls registration daemon needs to support multiple LSes
   * Related to 73 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=190 190] - Add owp archiving into pS-B (current version will simply ignore owp files sent to the collector)
   * Being partially addressed by GA Tech project.   * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=193 193] - Normalize 'units' used in owmesh specification
   * Assign to Nils
 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=195 195] - Defaults for bwctl/owamp test options in the pSB database
   * Assign to Nils * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=199 199] - Lookup Service Statistics
 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=211 211] - Suspend service start if administrative/connectivity info is not present
   * Possible upgrade in priority.   * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=220 220] - CGI scripts are susceptible to client tinkering
   * Assign to Nils * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=242 242] - ps-buoy graph user interface improvements
   * Assign to Nils * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=246 246] - report node names as configured in owmesh file, rather than dns reverse lookups	 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=274 274] - Remove store.xml dependence for pSB * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=276 276] - Smarter Disk Configuration
   * Should evaluate if this is still even required.   * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=296 296] - keep all scheduled OWAMP tests in the graphs table, add capability to manage
 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=304 304] - Backup utility
   * Assign to Nils * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=321 321] - Link to error logs on services page/perfAdmin GUIs
   * Assign to Nils
   * Possible upgrade in priority * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=328 328] - Add feature to admin screen to disable http access
   * Assign to Nils * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=332 332] - Normalize Table Display in perfAdmin
   * Assign to Nils * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=345 345] - support for 'internal' performance toolkit instances * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=349 349] - Identify and Archive the path measured by bwctl & owamp
   * Assign to Andy * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=354 354] - Linux Memory Support
   * Assign to Nils * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=359 359] - var log export   * Assign to Nils
 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=380 380] - unify service status checking between the various GUIs, nagios plugins and LS Registration Daemon
 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=381 381] - Port Administration on pSPT * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=400 400] - Scheduled Tests GUI - When click on Save button - all services restarted instead of one * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=404 404] - Service State: Expected value vs Actual Value
   * Assign to Kavitha * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=406 406] - Disable (not delete) a regular test   * Assign to Kavitha 
 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=410 410] - Lookup Service Registration Request Access Control
 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=414 414] - SNMP MA does not register keywords with the LS
   * Assign to Sowmya * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=417 417] - improve toolkit logging * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=418 418] - Run NDT/NPAD from apache
   * Assign to Nils * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=419 419] - additional information needed in the hLS to support service directory * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=438 438] - perfsonarbuoy/bwctl startup loop if ntp is unsynchronized
   * Assign to Aaron/Kavitha
   * Possible upgrade in priority.  
 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=439 439] - Red-Green Plots of OWAMP data showing path Availability * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=441 441] - Impart knowledge of the 'local node' into perfAdmin Graphs
   * Assign to Nils * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=442 442] - multistream support for pSB * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=452 452] - Review architecture vulnerabilities (LS and TS)
 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=454 454] - Add GridFTP Servers to LSRegistrationDaemon
   * Assigned to Andy
 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=474 474]	- Archive Failed Test Results
 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=476 476] - Automated database backup

===== Future =====

 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=2 2] - enhancement to SNMP MA: ability to request metadata * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=93 93] - Functional specification of 'centralized configuration service' * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=108 108] - Stack Trace via perfSONAR Messages * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=123 123] - Error MA * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=127 127] - Refactor bwmaster.pl to fetch addresses from 'conf' before forking * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=135 135] - suggested modifications to default bwctl configuration for NPToolkit * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=168 168] - support bwctl/iperf congestion control feature * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=198 198] - pS-B node equivalence
 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=234 234] - perfSONAR-BUOY and PingER have different "grouping" concepts for their test configuration files * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=329 329] - more unified nptoolkit configuration * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=341 341] - circuit support for regular tests * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=378 378] - DNS lookups within services, clients, GUIs * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=389 389] - data provenance for monitoring data * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=457 457] - Configuration - Summarize aggregate bandwidth estimate for configured tests * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=459 459] - Nagios plug-in to check toolkit version * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=461 461] - add ability to restrict bwctl tests to R&E networks only on the NPtoolkit
 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=472 472] - PXE Boot pSPT

===== Hold/Triage =====

The following bugs should be discussed if they make sense for the project to keep.  

 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=49 49] - Daemon job to automatically add BWCTL/OWAMP isntances * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=462 462] - Kernel module for IDE SSD drive * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=463 463] - the SFC driver isn't completely up to date

===== Close =====

 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=1 1] - feature request: SNMP MA: ability to request multiple resolutions, consolidationFunctions, etc. in a single request
   * The modifictions were complete a long time ago.  If there are additional requests they need to be clarified, otherwise close. * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=8 8] - mysql_socket options   * This has not hampered development, I recommend closing.  
 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=45 45] - OWAMP eventType
   * This was not a problem in deployments, I recommend closing.   * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=158 158] - bwctl gui needs to have option to save performance graph as image   * Current = print screen.  This may be possible in the future GUIs.  Recommend to close.     * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=164 164] - Add option to completely clear disk/partition table and all
   * Done for netinstall, do we care about live cd?  recommend to close.   * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=165 165] - Explore syslog-ng, and potential loghost setup
   * Recommend closing ( see also 339 ).  Can write FAQ items if required.    * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=188 188] - add ntp servers for various geographic locations
   * Merge w/ 189 into one bug - something to add parallel ntp queries.   * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=189 189] - Add RNP NTP servers to NPToolkit
   * Merge w/ 188 into one bug - something to add parallel ntp queries.   * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=205 205] - Branding for main pS-Perf Toolkit web page
   * Do we care about making it easier for people to re-brand w/ their own logo?   * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=339 339] - ability to configure central syslog host for syslog-ng
   * Recommend closing ( see also 165 ).  Can write FAQ items if required.  * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=343 343] - status checking functionality for pSB
   * NAGIOS plugins address this and 344, recomend closing.   * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=344 344] - status checking functionality for PingER   * NAGIOS plugins address this and 343, recomend closing. 
 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=372 372] - hanging pinger instances
   * Recomend closing since its a rare occurance, and there does not appear to be a good solution.   * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=377 377] - Add database fields to provide unix timestamps for owamp and bwctl data in pSB
   * I recommend closing since steps were taken to improve time functions.   * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=396 396] - default log location of /var/log/syslog should be changed
   * It is recommended that 'wizards' can change log locations on their own, everyone else should use the default.  Close? * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=399 399] - MySQL table type comparison
   * Does not appear to be necessary or constructive.   * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=443 443] - Client::LS::Remote not re-registering when keep-alives fail to hLS
   * May not be a bug.   * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=448 448] - bwcollector discards iperf tests that take > 1 second longer than duration
   * Work Complete? * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=449 449] - daemon.pl throws HTTP 500 errors when numerous parallel requests   * Work Complete?

==== Priority Assignment ===

Based on an email discussion, brian has asked we consider the following in the 3.2 release series.  

 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=184 184]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=211 211]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=321 321]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=438 438]

=== Visualization tools for the inter-noc diagnostic service ===

 * Presenter: Joe
 * Time Alloted: 30 Mins
 * Topics to Cover:
 * Materials: TBD
 * Notes:
 
TBD
     
=== OWAMP Visualization ===

 * Presenter: Andy
 * Time Alloted: 25 Mins
 * Topics to Cover:
 * Materials: TBD
 * Notes:
 
TBD

=== E-Center Update ===

 * Presenter: Andy/Brian
 * Time Alloted: 20 Mins
 * Topics to Cover:
 * Materials: TBD
 * Notes:
 
TBD

=== 5 Minute Break ===

=== IRIS Update ===

 * Presenter: Jeff
 * Time Alloted: 20 Mins
 * Topics to Cover:
 * Materials: TBD
 * Notes:
 
TBD

=== PathMA Visualization ===

 * Presenter: Andy
 * Time Alloted: 25 Mins
 * Topics to Cover:
 * Materials: TBD
 * Notes:
 
TBD

=== Circuit Monitoring ===

 * Presenter: Aaron
 * Time Alloted: 45 Mins
 * Topics to Cover:
 * Materials: TBD
 * Notes:
 
TBD

=== BWCTL Visualization ===

 * Presenter: Brian
 * Time Alloted: 25 Mins
 * Topics to Cover:
 * Materials: TBD
 * Notes:
 
TBD

== Actions ==

=== Prior ===

 * _*ACTION*_: Jason will look at SNMP store file examples and documentation to verify Bps/bps is correct. Joe will look at ESnet store file generator, and Aaron will verify the Internet2 instance.
 * _*ACTION*_: Aaron will expand out the project wiki page to include a link to his instrucitons on updating the toolkit.
 * _*ACTION*_: Nils and Sowmya will attempt to build a release of the pS-PTK using Aaron's documentation.
 * _*ACTION*_: Jeff will arrange for a future call to focus on 3.3 priorities. After SC. (Done with Brian's help.)
 * _*ACTION*_: Jason will continue exploring the non-transaction method for opening xmldb. He will also look into timing the operations to see if this will increase performance as well.

=== New ===

 * _*ACTION*_: TBD

== Where ==

ESnet conference bridge:

 * GDS: 00113498255555
 * Direct Dial:  mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-883-7860 then 8255555# at the prompt. 

== Last Updated ==

$Id$
