#summary Mar28, 2011 Conference Call

=  Mar 28 2011 Conference Call 2:30 p.m. EDT =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees:
   * aaron, nils, sowyma, andy, jeff, maxim, joe, jason, brian
 # Followup on previous actions:
   * _*ACTION*_: Nils and Sowmya will update the pS-PT build environment documentation and vmware image.
     * Nils: No changes.  He and Aaron talked, can make the entire thing smaller if just a KS file is used.  Haven't done any new work on it.  Idea: create a new VM, have it do the netinstall, and use the KS.  
   * _*ACTION*_: Jeff and Brian will look through issue tracker to determine effort level and resources for 3.2.1 tagged items. 
     * Getting closer, brian will start marking things off, jeff too.  Need to change assigned people as well as targets.  Need to do effort levels still (need developer input on that).  Jason entering in new labels for time estimates (hours, days, weeks, months) - Brian/Jeff and developers to then fill these in.  
   * _*ACTION*_: Andy will check out SLAC traceroute analysis. 
     * nothign new
   * _*ACTION*_: Jason will add a FAQ item regarding mis-matched NIC speeds.
     * will do all web updating near the release, there is an issue for this so no longer an action.  
   * _*ACTION*_: Jeff to figure out how to manage collaborative web space at psps.perfsonar.net. 
     * Jeff did some stuff, can't happen at Internet2 though.  What about Jason's idea - process to make content in the wiki space then migrate to web.  Objections?  Brian wants svn checkout/checkin of content instead - had problems with this last time (web editors didn't like using svn).  Discussion of using a CMS at ESnet.  SVN may work with just our small group (but hard to move real web devs that use editors involved).  ESnet is using shib to manage stuff (freelance development).  
   * _*ACTION*_: All: read / comment on  http://fasterdata.es.net/fasterdata/perfSONAR/ps-howto/perfsonar-configuration-guide/ and http://fasterdata.es.net/fasterdata/troubleshooting/overview/
     * Jason mailed comments, and attached them to the open bugs.  Brian read these over - agrees with most of the comments.  Should make content generic.  Disagreed with the 'go find problems' comment.  Doesn't know next steps for this since we are still dealing with CMS question above.  Jeff: Jason can be editor for the Internet2 side.  Next steps - take content and migrate to pSPS?  Lets do this on the wiki, then edit in a collaborative way.  Brian to migrate the text from HTML to wiki.  Other 2 pages were in wiki already.  3 pages:
       * Troubleshooting
       * Collaboration
       * Configuration
     * Need to get other people reading.  Sowmya and Kavitha were nominated, Joe too.  Jeff will ask for reviews from the perf wg at the MM.      
   * _*ACTION*_: Brian will add an issue to deal with 'contributed' drivers and such. (done: issue 502)
     * Action done, issue still open.  
   * _*ACTION*_: Andy will create a new owamp summary schema and event type with buckets required.
     * Updated last week.  Sowmya's GUIs use it now.  Testing on some hosts.  Remove action?  Yes.  
   * _*ACTION*_: Sowmya will do more performance analysis of XML generation.
     * Started re-writing some code.  No new performance analysis.  Will do more next week.  
 # DICE update from Joe
   * 1 Good thing - we didn't get completely new orders.  Last year the principals had brand new tasks.  This time we can continue on.
   * Key Issue - need more deterministic outcomes (better project management).  Project Managers (Eric/Joe/Ann) to keep the principals updated better.  Need to give them advanced warning when things don't go well (knowledge in advance).  Reasonable to do, but a change.
   * Diagnostic service.  Roadmap/project plan - operations group to define service/requirements.  Technical group to implement.  Have been redistricting the service to match the technology that we have already.  Services are pretty much defined.  Need to do test criteria.  After that, the tech group will identify gaps/resources to fix gaps.  If the gaps are large, go back to principals for next steps
   * Where will there be gaps?  
     * Ops group needs information from tool failure (e.g. useful error messages that are logged/stored)
     * AA issues.  IP based alcls are not universally accepted.  Buy in on the doc for the most part.  
   Next steps - Chris Robb and Dale F will identify where we need acceptance criteria.  Someone from Geant to draft this list.  In 2 weeks(!), which is aggressive.   
   * Jeff/Joe - we should be doing our own identification of gaps soon (in parallel with the ops group).  Test criteria prevents us from getting a complete set, but we can get some.  
   * Brian - date for deployment?  Expecting by next DICE meeting (Sept 2011?).  No dates were given, since we still don't have service criteria.  Once we have the gap analysis we will be expected to deploy the 'easy' stuff quickly.  Some of this is deployed already on the backbones.  Hard stuff is still hard (!).  Joe's expectation - 75% complete in a couple of months.  
   * We have agreed to use 'smartsheet' project planning tool.  Generate reports to the principals every 6 weeks based on the smartsheet.  Ann has started this already (using microsoft planning right now, import).
   * Josva Kleist is heading the pS development effort in europe.  1st week of May - he will be in the US w/ Jerry S.  Time at Internet2 and LBL.  Eric/Jeff may travel to LBL.  2/3 or 3/4 of May.  Jerry may talk to ESnet about NSI, talk to Internet2 about perfSONAR.    
   * Jeff/Joe will do some passes on gap analysis.  
 # Code Review for Maxim's Changes
   * Do we need to discuss this anymore?  When this gets put in, we need to make sure things don't break.  When it is committed, we need someone to exercise the toolkit stuff (biggest user of these functions).  
   * Aaron's concerns are valid, perl doesn't do the right thing.  
   * Aaron to add issue to tracker, tag for 3.2.1 release.  Put lots of info in there.  Will assign to someone.  
   * Basis for a testing harness?
 # Documentation Topics
   * See Jason's email thread for the entire proposal
   * Maintain the 2 content areas as such:
     # Web = publishable/polished material that is reviewed on a semi-regular basis.  Content neutral for the perfSONAR-PS community.  
     # Wiki = 'in-progress' work area and collaboration space.  Content migrates off when 'finished'
   * Also need to speak to the user types more directly.  E.g. materials for an operator are different than materials for a developer.  Organizing this in some way will cut down on information overload.  
   * Proposed breakdown by content area:
     * Informal/Collaboration (Wiki)
       * Anything that is in-progress will start here, then be moved
       * Service Design Documents, understood to be in progress
       * Protocol Design Documents
       * Release Management
       * Bug Tracking
       * Meeting(s) space
     * Formal (Web)
       * Installation and Configuration
         * Step by Step Install (migrate from Wiki)
         * One Page README - just the facts to get up and running
       * Using the pSPT
         * Regular vs Diagnostic Use Case
         * Why/How to configure tests (What Brian has started)
         * Care and Feeding of your pSPT (Maintenance procedures, etc.)
         * Debugging Network Problems
       * Contributing (some of what Brian has started, but more, and formalized)
         * Become a Mirror
         * Building Drivers
         * Packaging Software
         * Participation In The Project
       * Specific spaces for (note, these can use links to other resources - act as a reference for the things these groups would want to do):
         * Researchers
           * Kinds of data available
           * How to access it
           * How to get in contact with R&E network support staff
         * Users
           * Learning to use the pS tools
           * Learn about network performance (in general)
           * Getting more help
         * Operators
           * Installing
           * Configuring
           * Maintaining
           * Interpreting results
           * Learn about network performance (in general)
           * Getting more help
         * Developers
           * Developing clients
           * developing servers
           * packaging
           * contributions to the project

== Actions ==

   * _*ACTION*_: Joe and Jeff to do gap analysis for DICE docs.  
   * _*ACTION*_: Jason to add labels to issue tracker for time estimates.  
   * _*ACTION*_: Brian to share some of the information about managing CMS at ESnet with Shibboleth.  
   * _*ACTION*_: Jeff to still ask about further use of SVN as a content management system for psps.perfsonar.net
   * _*ACTION*_: Kavitha/Sowyma/Joe to read Brian's documentation/Jason's Comments.
   * _*ACTION*_: Brian to migrate fasterdata content to Wiki
   * _*ACTION*_: Jason to integrate his comments into Brian's wiki pages + fasterdata content.  Work on additional doc in accordance with the proposal.  
   * _*ACTION*_: Nils and Sowmya will update the pS-PT build environment documentation and vmware image.
   * _*ACTION*_: Jeff and Brian will look through issue tracker to determine effort level and resources for 3.2.1 tagged items. 
   * _*ACTION*_: Andy will check out SLAC traceroute analysis. 
   * _*ACTION*_: Sowmya will do more performance analysis of XML generation.

== Where ==

ESnet conference bridge:

 * GDS: 00113498255555
 * Direct Dial:  mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-883-7860 then 8255555# at the prompt. 

== Last Updated ==

$Id:$
