#summary Feb 28, 2011 Conference Call

=  Feb 28 2011 Conference Call 2:30 p.m. EDT =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees:
   * Brian
   * Sowmya
   * Jason
   * Jeff
   * Andy
   * Maxim
   * Kavitha
   * Aaron
   * Nils
 # Followup on previous actions:s
  * _*ACTION*_: Nils and Sowmya will attempt to build a release of the pS-PTK using Aaron's documentation.
    * Sowmya sent email to Jeff on this matter, tried to start.  Trying to use Mock to build things - couldn't generate NDT rpm.  Nothing in documetation to solve her issue - will send email to list.  
    * Nils did this on a VMWare image on his laptop, no problems.  
    * Next steps - make this available for someone to use?  Sowmya and Nils to work together on this now, also improve doc (if something is missing)
  * _*ACTION*_: Jason will continue exploring the non-transaction method for opening xmldb. He will also look into timing the operations to see if this will increase performance as well.
    * Not yet ... did do a minor code review, needs to make a branch to start this.  
  * _*ACTION*_: Jason will update the issue tracker to organize issues into versions.
    * Expect this later tonight - lots of mails.  
  * _*ACTION*_: Andy will check out SLAC traceroute analysis.
    * Haven't look at what SLAC started.  
  * _*ACTION*_: Jason will add a FAQ item regarding mis-matched NIC speeds.
    * Will write up some text issue - Brian started some too - also reference the bug (and the text from the original report) - issue #389.  

 # Release issue overview
   * Prioritize 3.2.1 issues and determine resources needs based on timeline.   
     * Jason will finish review.  
     * Brian wants to look at 443 - has not been triaged yet by developers.  
       * Someone will look - Brian thinks this is critical enough to patch immediatly.     
     * Question about release process - when does something enter into the netinstall repo?  Outside of a release cycle?  Want to limit this.  
 # Cache daemon issues - status (Andy)
   * Script that builds the cache will touch some other file - to tell its running
   * Client will check the touched file, visit other servers as needed
 # 'What now?' documentation (Brian)
   * http://fasterdata.es.net/fasterdata/perfSONAR/ps-howto/perfsonar-configuration-guide/
     * What to configure, and why
   * http://fasterdata.es.net/fasterdata/troubleshooting/overview/
     * How to debug real problems
   * Notes:
     * Took at stab at writing things to address the issues.  
     * Move content to pSPS?  Point to it?
     * How to edit on psps.perfsonar?  What is the process.  Action for Jeff to figure this out.  CMS?
     * Action for everyone to read.  
 # ls_registration_service - bug #443 (Brian)
   * See above.  Two issues:
     * Look at LS Reg Daemon
     * Look at LS Libraries
     * Consider the behvior of the LS (gets deleted nightly now...).  
   * Who can work on this?  Unclear.
 # latest version of Somya's owamp plotting tool: 
http://odev-vm-8.es.net/serviceTest/cgi-bin/delayGraph.cgi?url=http://ps-lat.es.net:8085/perfSONAR_PS/services/pSB&key=0c9f303f231defb145c27b966c4ca4aa&length=14400&&dstIP=198.129.254.187&srcIP=128.114.0.205&src=bwctl.ucsc.edu&dst=ps-lat.es.net
   * Using a javascript package
   * Loss is the right axis, delay the right.  
   * Can add/remove the other items from the graph.  
   * Show/hide url - if zoom, the times don't change.   Do we need this feature?  Yes, may be different in address bar.  
   * Plotting duplicates, out of order packets?  Should look into the former.  Running out of axis space.  
   * Reverse direction?  Needs it - maybe not this graph.  Parallel calls to get data from server, makes it faster.  
 # Other
  * IPv6 monitoring - mixing with IPv4 vs separate service deployment (Maxim)
  * Notes:
    * Everything in pinger is centered around hostname.  Complicates backend model.  Question - what is more desirable, to intriduce v6 and v4 testing in same service?  For same hostname identify both addresses, or deploy 2 services (v4 testing and v6 testing).  Configuration and support is easier in the second case.  
    * Jeff - pSB treats the address just like any other feature, so mixing tests is not hard.

== Actions ==

 * _*ACTION*_: Nils and Sowmya will work on combining efforst to build a release of the pS-PTK using Aaron's documentation.
 * _*ACTION*_: Jason will continue exploring the non-transaction method for opening xmldb. He will also look into timing the operations to see if this will increase performance as well.
 * _*ACTION*_: Jason will update the issue tracker to organize issues into versions.  
 * _*ACTION*_: Andy will check out SLAC traceroute analysis. 
 * _*ACTION*_: Jason will add a FAQ item regarding mis-matched NIC speeds.
 * _*ACTION*_: Jeff to figure out how to manage collaborative web space at psps.perfsonar.net.  
 
== Where ==

ESnet conference bridge:

 * GDS: 00113498255555
 * Direct Dial:  mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-883-7860 then 8255555# at the prompt. 

== Last Updated ==

$Id$
