#summary Mar28, 2011 Conference Call

=  Mar 28 2011 Conference Call 2:30 p.m. EDT =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees:
   * TBD
 # Excused:
   * TBD
 # Followup on previous actions:
   * _*ACTION*_: Nils and Sowmya will update the pS-PT build environment documentation and vmware image.
   * _*ACTION*_: Jeff and Brian will look through issue tracker to determine effort level and resources for 3.2.1 tagged items. 
   * _*ACTION*_: Andy will check out SLAC traceroute analysis. 
   * _*ACTION*_: Jason will add a FAQ item regarding mis-matched NIC speeds.
   * _*ACTION*_: Jeff to figure out how to manage collaborative web space at psps.perfsonar.net. 
   * _*ACTION*_: All: read / comment on  http://fasterdata.es.net/fasterdata/perfSONAR/ps-howto/perfsonar-configuration-guide/ and http://fasterdata.es.net/fasterdata/troubleshooting/overview/
   * _*ACTION*_: Brian will add an issue to deal with 'contributed' drivers and such.
   * _*ACTION*_: Andy will create a new owamp summary schema and event type with buckets required.
   * _*ACTION*_: Sowmya will do more performance analysis of XML generation.
 # Developer updates?
 # Release Topics
 # Code Review for Maxim's Changes
 # Documentation Topics
   * See Jason's email thread for the entire proposal
   * Maintain the 2 content areas as such:
     # Web = publishable/polished material that is reviewed on a semi-regular basis.  Content neutral for the perfSONAR-PS community.  
     # Wiki = 'in-progress' work area and collaboration space.  Content migrates off when 'finished'
   * Also need to speak to the user types more directly.  E.g. materials for an operator are different than materials for a developer.  Organizing this in some way will cut down on information overload.  
   * Proposed breakdown by content area:
     * Informal/Collaboration (Wiki)
       * Anything that is in-progress will start here, then be moved
       * Service Design Documents, understood to be in progress
       * Protocol Design Documents
       * Release Management
       * Bug Tracking
       * Meeting(s) space
     * Formal (Web)
       * Installation and Configuration
         * Step by Step Install (migrate from Wiki)
         * One Page README - just the facts to get up and running
       * Using the pSPT
         * Regular vs Diagnostic Use Case
         * Why/How to configure tests (What Brian has started)
         * Care and Feeding of your pSPT (Maintenance procedures, etc.)
         * Debugging Network Problems
       * Contributing (some of what Brian has started, but more, and formalized)
         * Become a Mirror
         * Building Drivers
         * Packaging Software
         * Participation In The Project
       * Specific spaces for (note, these can use links to other resources - act as a reference for the things these groups would want to do):
         * Researchers
           * Kinds of data available
           * How to access it
           * How to get in contact with R&E network support staff
         * Users
           * Learning to use the pS tools
           * Learn about network performance (in general)
           * Getting more help
         * Operators
           * Installing
           * Configuring
           * Maintaining
           * Interpreting results
           * Learn about network performance (in general)
           * Getting more help
         * Developers
           * Developing clients
           * developing servers
           * packaging
           * contributions to the project

== Actions ==

   * _*ACTION*_: TBD

== Where ==

ESnet conference bridge:

 * GDS: 00113498255555
 * Direct Dial:  mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-883-7860 then 8255555# at the prompt. 

== Last Updated ==

$Id:$
