#summary May 9nd, 2011 Conference Call

=  May 9 2011 Conference Call 3 p.m. EDT =
== Agenda/Minutes ==
 # Attendees:
     * Maxim, Brian, Andy, Sowmya, Jason, Aaron, Kavitha, Nils, Martin, Joe
 # Followup on previous actions:
   * Short Term
     * _*ACTION*_: Kavitha/Sowyma/Joe to read Brian's documentation/Jason's Comments.
     * _*ACTION*_: Kavitha/Sowmya/Aaron to comment/change time estimates 3.2.1 issues.
     * _*ACTION*_: Jason to integrate his comments into Brian's wiki pages + fasterdata content.  Work on additional doc in accordance with the proposal.  
     * _*ACTION*_: Joe and Jeff to do gap analysis for DICE docs.
     * _*ACTION*_: Developers to comment/change time estimates 3.2.1 issues.
     * _*ACTION*_: Martin will develop an action plan for what we want to accomplish at the next OGF in SLC in July.
     * _*ACTION*_: Martin will have one of his team commit the HTTPS mods to the pS-PS svn in a branch so the rest of the pS-PS team can evaluate the mods.
   * Long Term
     * _*ACTION*_: Nils will continue work on vmware build environment
     * _*ACTION*_: Andy will check out SLAC traceroute analysis. 
     * _*ACTION*_: Sowmya will do more performance analysis of XML generation.
     * _*ACTION*_: Brian/Jeff to work on pS-PS scheduling
     * _*ACTION*_: Sowmya will attempt to build X86-64 rpms
 # Developer Updates
     * Martin: Nothing
     * Jason: Nothing
     * Joe: DICE discussion happened last week. Geant is considering making all pS HTTP traffic to HTTPS and use server certificates to authenticate transactions. What would Geant backbone MPs accept and what would they recommend to their users? Joe thinks if they accept DOEGrids/inCommon certs that would get most cases but notes that it will cause problems for generic toolkit installs. Josev will go back to Geant and see what certs they will use for sure. There was discussion of next steps for LS.
     * Andy: Has worked on host metadata. Discussion later.
     * Brian: Nothing
     * Sowmya: Working on bwctl/owamp graphs and service test cgi.
     * Aaron: Packaging ESxSNMP to produce an RPM to make it easier to install. Looking into weird polling problems. Brian asked about making circuit monitoring work with 5.3. Andy may back-port.
     * Nils: Nothing
     * Kavitha: Nothing
     * Maxim: Nothing
     * Jeff: Nothing
 # Host metadata
     * http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/wiki/HostMetadataProposal
     * Discussion of examples and parameters. Andy will add some additional host parameters (cpu speed, number of cores) as well as put some specific query examples together.
 # Updated plots for Toolkit
  * http://ps-lat.es.net/toolkit/gui/perfAdmin/serviceTestScript/cgi-bin/front-end.cgi?eventType=owamp
  * http://ps-lat.es.net/toolkit/gui/perfAdmin/serviceTestScript/cgi-bin/front-end.cgi?eventType=bwctl
== Actions ==
 * Short Term
     * _*ACTION*_: Jason will write more in the troubleshooting and collaborating documents.
     * _*ACTION*_: Sowmya/Aaron to comment/change time estimates 3.2.1 issues.
     * _*ACTION*_: Joe and Jeff to do gap analysis for DICE docs.
     * _*ACTION*_: Sowmya will package owamp/bwctl plots for others to test.
     * _*ACTION*_: Andy will add some additional host parameters (cpu speed, number of cores) as well as put some specific query examples together.
 * Long Term
     * _*ACTION*_: Nils will continue work on vmware build environment
     * _*ACTION*_: Andy will check out SLAC traceroute analysis. 
     * _*ACTION*_: Sowmya will do more performance analysis of XML generation.
     * _*ACTION*_: Brian/Jeff to work on pS-PS scheduling
     * _*ACTION*_: Sowmya will attempt to build X86-64 rpms
== Where ==
ESnet conference bridge:

 * GDS: 00113498255555
 * Direct Dial:  mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-883-7860 then 8255555# at the prompt. 
== Last Updated ==
$Id$
