#summary Feb 14, 2011 Conference Call

=  Feb 14 2011 Conference Call 2:30 p.m. EDT =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees:
   *
 # Followup on previous actions:
  * _*ACTION*_: Nils and Sowmya will attempt to build a release of the pS-PTK using Aaron's documentation.
  * _*ACTION*_: Jason will continue exploring the non-transaction method for opening xmldb. He will also look into timing the operations to see if this will increase performance as well.
  * _*ACTION*_: Jason will update the issue tracker to organize issues into versions.
 # PathMA Visualization
   * Presenter: Andy
   * Topics to Cover:
   * Materials: 
    * http://odev-vm-15.es.net/traceroute-viz.ppt
    * Go to: http://lbnl.readytalk.com/  id: 4867381 
   * Notes:
 # Brain-storm the 'what now' question
   * Now that there are deployments out there, how do we encourage actual use and show utility?
     * Documentation on next steps
     * Email list to encourage usage - advertise successes
     * other???
 # Release issue overview
   * Prioritize 3.2.1 issues and determine resources needs based on timeline.
 # Potential solutions to throughput tests with NIC speed mis-matches
   # FAQ
   # Register host info
   # Add flag into bwctl/iperf to fetch the NIC info and put it in the data stream, and include it in the database. (For bwctl, could even trade that info in the control-connection and automatically rate-limit using the window size... but that seems like a bit of a hack. Of course, I have been known to like hacks now and then.)
   # Other ideas anyone?

== Actions ==


== Where ==

ESnet conference bridge:

 * GDS: 00113498255555
 * Direct Dial:  mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-883-7860 then 8255555# at the prompt. 

== Last Updated ==

$Id$