#summary Jan 21, 2011 Conference Call

=  Jan 21 2011 Conference Call 1:00 p.m. EDT =

<wiki:toc max_depth="6" />

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees:
   * 
 # Topics
   # Release Topics
   # Visualization tools for the inter-noc diagnostic service ===
   # OWAMP Visualization
   # E-Center Update
   # 5 Minute Break
   # IRIS Update
   # PathMA Visualization
   # Circuit Monitoring
   # BWCTL Visualization

=== Release Topics === 

 * Presenter: Jason/Aaron
 * Time Alloted: 45 Mins
 * Topics to Cover:
   * Support, QA, Release Management Topics
   * Growing the Community through self service
   * 3.2.x
     * Issues Update
     * Release Schedule
     * Functionality Additions
   * 3.3
     * Issues Update
     * Development Priorities
     * Roadmap/Relsease Schedule
 * Materials: TBD
 * Notes:
 
TBD

=== Visualization tools for the inter-noc diagnostic service ===

 * Presenter: Joe
 * Time Alloted: 30 Mins
 * Topics to Cover:
 * Materials: TBD
 * Notes:
 
TBD
     
=== OWAMP Visualization ===

 * Presenter: Andy
 * Time Alloted: 25 Mins
 * Topics to Cover:
 * Materials: TBD
 * Notes:
 
TBD

=== E-Center Update ===

 * Presenter: Andy/Brian
 * Time Alloted: 20 Mins
 * Topics to Cover:
 * Materials: TBD
 * Notes:
 
TBD

=== 5 Minute Break ===

=== IRIS Update ===

 * Presenter: Jeff
 * Time Alloted: 20 Mins
 * Topics to Cover:
 * Materials: TBD
 * Notes:
 
TBD

=== PathMA Visualization ===

 * Presenter: Andy
 * Time Alloted: 25 Mins
 * Topics to Cover:
 * Materials: TBD
 * Notes:
 
TBD

=== Circuit Monitoring ===

 * Presenter: Aaron
 * Time Alloted: 45 Mins
 * Topics to Cover:
 * Materials: TBD
 * Notes:
 
TBD

=== BWCTL Visualization ===

 * Presenter: Brian
 * Time Alloted: 25 Mins
 * Topics to Cover:
 * Materials: TBD
 * Notes:
 
TBD

== Actions ==

=== Prior ===

 * _*ACTION*_: Jason will look at SNMP store file examples and documentation to verify Bps/bps is correct. Joe will look at ESnet store file generator, and Aaron will verify the Internet2 instance.
 * _*ACTION*_: Aaron will expand out the project wiki page to include a link to his instrucitons on updating the toolkit.
 * _*ACTION*_: Nils and Sowmya will attempt to build a release of the pS-PTK using Aaron's documentation.
 * _*ACTION*_: Jeff will arrange for a future call to focus on 3.3 priorities. After SC. (Done with Brian's help.)
 * _*ACTION*_: Jason will continue exploring the non-transaction method for opening xmldb. He will also look into timing the operations to see if this will increase performance as well.

=== New ===

 * _*ACTION*_: TBD

== Where ==

ESnet conference bridge:

 * GDS: 00113498255555
 * Direct Dial:  mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-883-7860 then 8255555# at the prompt. 

== Last Updated ==

$Id$
