#summary Feb 07, 2011 Conference Call

=  Feb 07 2011 Conference Call 2:30 p.m. EDT =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees:
   * Andy, Sowmya, Brian, Maxim, Jason, Nils, Aaron, Jeff, Joe, Martin
 # Followup on previous actions:
  * _*ACTION*_: Jason will look at SNMP store file examples and documentation to verify Bps/bps is correct. Joe will look at ESnet store file generator, and Aaron will verify the Internet2 instance.
    * convereting to issues in the tracker.
  * _*ACTION*_: Aaron will expand out the project wiki page to include a link to his instrucitons on updating the toolkit.
    * convereting to issues in the tracker.
  * _*ACTION*_: Nils and Sowmya will attempt to build a release of the pS-PTK using Aaron's documentation.
    * continuing
   * _*ACTION*_: Jason will continue exploring the non-transaction method for opening xmldb. He will also look into timing the operations to see if this will increase performance as well.
    * continuing
 # Developer Updates
   * Joe: DICE diagnostic service is on track. DICE service delivery is going through more of a project-management process.
   * Nils: No update
   * Aaron: Fixed minor bugs on toolkit. Starting circuit-monitoring.
   * Maxim: Plan on making pingER ipv6 compatible. Discussion
   * Sowmya: Looking at improving performance of summary buckets in OWAMP.
   * Brian: Soliciting input on hLS. Are your services discoverable?
   * Martin: No update
   * Jeff: No update
   * Andy: Fixed bugs in Nagios plugins.
 # Release status
   * Issue version placement
   * Timeline:
     * Release pressures: Summer Jt Techs.

== Actions ==

  * _*ACTION*_: Nils and Sowmya will attempt to build a release of the pS-PTK using Aaron's documentation.
   * _*ACTION*_: Jason will continue exploring the non-transaction method for opening xmldb. He will also look into timing the operations to see if this will increase performance as well.


== Where ==

ESnet conference bridge:

 * GDS: 00113498255555
 * Direct Dial:  mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-883-7860 then 8255555# at the prompt. 

== Last Updated ==

$Id$
