#summary Mar 7, 2011 Conference Call

=  Mar 7 2011 Conference Call 2:30 p.m. EDT =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees:
   * Kavitha, Brian, Aaron, Sowmya, Andy, Jeff, Joe
 # Excused:
   * Jason 
 # Followup on previous actions:
   * _*ACTION*_: Nils and Sowmya will work on combining efforst to build a release of the pS-PTK using Aaron's documentation.
   * _*ACTION*_: Nils and Sowmya will work on combining efforst to build a release of the pS-PTK using Aaron's documentation.
   * _*ACTION*_: Jason will continue exploring the non-transaction method for opening xmldb. He will also look into timing the operations to see if this will increase performance as well.
   * _*ACTION*_: Jason will update the issue tracker to organize issues into versions.  
     * done
   * _*ACTION*_: Andy will check out SLAC traceroute analysis. 
   * _*ACTION*_: Jason will add a FAQ item regarding mis-matched NIC speeds.
   * _*ACTION*_: Jeff to figure out how to manage collaborative web space at psps.perfsonar.net. 
   * _*ACTION*_: All: read / comment on  http://fasterdata.es.net/fasterdata/perfSONAR/ps-howto/perfsonar-configuration-guide/ and http://fasterdata.es.net/fasterdata/troubleshooting/overview/
 # Future Driver Support 
   * Several "Request for Drivers" types of bugs:
     * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=172 172] - Add vmxnet module	
     * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=282 282] - LinuxPPS Support	
     * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=433 433] - myricom driver isn't up to date
     * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=462 462] - Kernel module for IDE SSD drive 	 
     * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=463 463] - the SFC driver isn't completely up to date 
     * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=467 463] - ixgbe driver isn't up to date	 
   * What do we do in this space?
     * Accept bugs, build what people need - requires long term support for exotic drivers
     * Give people the VMWare image/instructions on how to build drivers for netinstall/live cd
     * Encourage submissions, we would need to check these of course
   * Email gravitated toward #2, other thoughts?
 # OWAMP Bucket parameter or event type
   * There seems to be a performance hit when the buckets are returned. It's not just the DB queries but also the time it takes to generate the XML. 
    * [http://odev-vm-15.es.net/buckets/no-buckets-plot.png Lifeline - No Buckets ]
    * [http://odev-vm-15.es.net/buckets/owamp-bucket-with-optplot.png Lifeline - w/Buckets]
   * We've discussed the folowing options if this became an issue:
    * Add optional boolean parameters such as "include_value_buckets" and "include_ttl_buckets" to indicate if client desires them. We should have a default which is probably to exclude both since that's the old behavior.
    * Define a new event type.
    * *Decision is to create a new event type and in parallel attempt to improve the XML generation.*
 
== Actions ==

   * _*ACTION*_: Nils and Sowmya will update the pS-PTK build environment documentation.
   * _*ACTION*_: Nils and Sowmya will create a vmware image for building contributions for the toolkit.
   * _*ACTION*_: Jason will continue exploring the non-transaction method for opening xmldb. He will also look into timing the operations to see if this will increase performance as well.
   * _*ACTION*_: Jeff and Brian wil look through issue tracker to determine effort level and resources for 3.2.1 tagged items.
   * _*ACTION*_: Andy will check out SLAC traceroute analysis. 
   * _*ACTION*_: Jason will add a FAQ item regarding mis-matched NIC speeds.
   * _*ACTION*_: Jeff to figure out how to manage collaborative web space at psps.perfsonar.net. 
   * _*ACTION*_: All: read / comment on  http://fasterdata.es.net/fasterdata/perfSONAR/ps-howto/perfsonar-configuration-guide/ and http://fasterdata.es.net/fasterdata/troubleshooting/overview/
   * _*ACTION*_: Brian will add an issue to deal with 'contributed' drivers and such.
   * _*ACTION*_: Andy will create a new owamp summary schema and event type with buckets required.
   * _*ACTION*_: Sowmya will do more performance analysis of XML generation.
 
== Where ==

ESnet conference bridge:

 * GDS: 00113498255555
 * Direct Dial:  mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-883-7860 then 8255555# at the prompt. 

== Last Updated ==

$Id:$
