#summary April 25th, 2011 Conference Call

=  April 25 2011 Conference Call 2:30 p.m. EDT =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 # Attendees:
   * maxim
   * andy
   * jason
   * brian
   * jeff
   * sowmya
   * martin
   * joe
   * aaron
   * nils
   * kavitha
 # Excused:
   * none
 # Followup on previous actions:
   * _*ACTION*_: Jason to migrate hLS code to a branch
     * Done: https://svn.internet2.edu/svn/perfSONAR-PS/branches/jz-lstransactions/
     * Jason will merge to trunk this week.  
   * _*ACTION*_: Joe and Jeff to do gap analysis for DICE docs.  
     * No Update, try again next week.  
   * _*ACTION*_: ~~Jeff and Brian to assign time estimates and owners for 3.2.1 issues.~~
     * Done, create a new action for owners to review by next week.   
   * _*ACTION*_: Jeff to still ask about further use of SVN as a content management system for psps.perfsonar.net
     * Sysadmin group will be a guinea pig for using jango as a content manager.  Will know in a couple of weeks how this goes.  Set as a long term action to check back.  
   * _*ACTION*_: Kavitha/Sowyma/Joe to read Brian's documentation/Jason's Comments.
     * Kavitha in progress
     * Sowmya no comments, thought it was ok.  Headline was a little misleading.  
     * Joe has not read.  
   * _*ACTION*_: ~~Brian to migrate fasterdata content to Wiki~~
     * Done
   * _*ACTION*_: Jason to integrate his comments into Brian's wiki pages + fasterdata content.  Work on additional doc in accordance with the proposal.  
     * Jason has not had time, carry over.
   * _*ACTION*_: Nils will put the next steps for the vmware build environment in the issue tracker.
     * Added to issue tracker, didn't make any progress on the env yet (busy with other things).  
   * _*ACTION*_: Andy will check out SLAC traceroute analysis. 
     * Carry over as a long term action.   
   * _*ACTION*_: Sowmya will do more performance analysis of XML generation.
     * Carry over as a long term action.  
 # LS and LS Registration Daemon, easy to disable via the GUI?
   * Brian: can disable, but make it "hard to disable".  Want to see lots of warnings to be sure that the user knows the system is less useful in doing this.  
   * Joe: concerned it is registering garbage
   * Jeff: Opt in policy vs opt out.  Don't want people to be "surprised" that this was the normal way of operation (e.g. registering).  Document the ramifications of registering vs not.  
   * Next steps for the releases.   
     * 3.2.1: Stop registration if not configured (e.g. admin info).  Both the LS reg daemon and the LS (stop it completely).  GUI warnings that note you are not configured/sharing (depends on time estimate).  
     * 3.3: Checkbox to opt in/opt out.  Warnings that tell you when you are opted out (yellow vs green).  Would override the admin info entered or not.  
   * Jason to make a bug.  
 # OWAMP NAGIOS Probe - use percentage instead?
   * Came from Jason setting up NAGIOS plugins.  found it hard to calculate the percentage he wanted out of the pps and lost vs not lost.  
   * Jeff objects - notes that entering in lots of 0's is hard.  Jason notes not all networks have 7 0s in front of a decimal point worth of loss.
   * Andy: not hard to add in percentage as well as the current way to set thresholds.  
   * Jason to make a bug.  
 # v6 Support Update
   * Joe Updates.  Important topic, JET demo for this year.  Also ESnet/DOE importance - Vince very interested.  They will be spending some time ot get this right.  Good idea regardless of this.  Lots of JET discussion after the slide was released (mostly about NDT - Rich had some objections).  Sorry he didn't get the slides to us faster to review.  
   * ESnet update - found some configuration problems w/ V6, no performance problems (yet).  
   * NDT Comments - was a problem with the userland library (not NDT).  on our next release, tested to work (so far).  
   * Looking for full toolkit suport of v6 for the summer?  Depends on what you mean by full support. 
     * NDT is ok, so are BWCTL and OWAMP as raw tools.  
     * Jeff - no timeframe for 3.2.1 yet, makes it hard to say if we can get done.  Joe wants to see progress on the slides (turn some yellow things green, etc.).  Focus on one metric for JET test.  This is doable for all.  
   * Toolkit GUIs ... what do we do here?
     * v4/v6 force checkboxes in the scheduled testing screens?
     * Need another layer of error checking to do this - make sure we are getting good data from user (and that hostnames/addresses resolve, etc.)
     * Underlying tools need to support the 'force v4/v6' option too, bugs open on these already ...
     * binding v4 and v6 to same host is always a gamble ...
   * Jason to open a 3.3 issue on this regarding tool/gui interplay.  Will work on other v6 capabilities for 3.2.1 release as we get going in the process.  
 # [MPDesignProposal]
   * Andy gives the overview.  See the model/messages.  Goal - measurements take time, request/response is faster.  Don't want to busy wait.  Pub/Sub suggested by Maxim, but we want to stick closer to the model used in pS for other things, e.g. lets go with polling.  Rely on transaction ID to get results later.  Worry about errors being reported from tools too.  Bottom of page describes trust/storage issues.  Complex stuff.  Two possible ways, evils and good things in each method.  Comments?
   * Jason/Andy discuss the trust, its weird and hard to get.  Andy has the OSCARS experiences in his mind which made him think the MP/MA relationship was harder than MP/Client and Client/MA.  Jeff notes that the problem is easier when you can tell who owns the parts (e.g. if you are the MP and MA owner, trust is easy - harder when 2 - 3 different owners).  Seems we will need to support both, and try to make the auth easier for the easy cases.  
   * Joe takes a step back to discuss the reason for this - DICE requirements.  Support on demand measurement (US and EU).  Jeff wants to know more about use cases, Joe notes throughput and latency.  Latency is harder most think (difference in HADES/pS).
   * Jeff makes a pitch for modifying BWCTL to include provisions to exec traceroute, owamp, etc. Could remove some of the logic of controlling tests from the MP layer and into the tools if we did this.  Joe notes the BWCTL protocol is not pS, could be a problem.  Jeff: Could move BWCTL protocol into pS space (something he has thought about before).  Think this may make the task easier.
   * Discussion moves to us "adding" a session layer into pS - making it statefull.  Server is now maintaining the state just for these tasks.  Getting complex, too complex for DICE.  Should we just leave the socket open for 5 minutes for the test to complete?  Jason calls it lame, Jeff disagrees and says this is how lots of people do it - maybe we do this to meet the immediate need.  
   * What are the next steps?  Need to find out what the EU is doing (CLMP? OPPD?).  We want to be compatible.  Should also see how things like eCenter and the ESnet Portal work - they have a similar need.  Different use cases of course, but similar needs.  
   * On demand functionality was always wanted for the toolkit (more than just NDT).  
   * Actions - Brian/Maxim will work on eCenter/ESnet Portal use case for this interaction.  Jeff/Joe will interact with the EU on the topic of supporting the MP use case.  
 # Data Provenance/Additional Metadata 
  * Issue 389
  * May not do this all today.  Basic idea, add more "stuff" into metadata from a service/host into the Information Services.  Also a DICE requirement.  Interface capacity, tcp alg, etc.  OSCARS does something - registers a node as well.  Can be time based, which makes it tricky.  
  * Jeff can see a situation where host information is duplicated a lot in test results, doesn't want to see this and would prefer to see it normalized.
  * LS has a snapshot of the current state of a machine?  Snapshot at each test?  Snapshot only when info changes?
  * Important distinction to point it: we are blurring the line between the LS and TS with this discussion.  These are all information services, but we still treat them as different things.  TS can handle timebased info (e.g. the same circuit endpoints may have different info when created, we have a lifetime to designate when its alive, etc.).  Don't want to see LS start to handle things that TS should handle unless we start to merge the functions.  
  * Augment the node (host) object to cover some of this and use in the LS?  Still doesn't have the lifetime features that are needed, would be more at home in the TS.  Use references to track down things.  
  * Continue on mailing list.  
  
== Actions ==

 * Short Term
   * _*ACTION*_: Jason to enter a bug for v6 toolkit support (3.3)
   * _*ACTION*_: Jason to enter a bug for OWAMP NAGIOS plugin improvement.  
   * _*ACTION*_: Jason to enter a bug for the LS registration issue (3.2.1 and 3.3 versions).     
   * _*ACTION*_: Jason to migrate hLS code to a branch
   * _*ACTION*_: Kavitha/Sowyma/Joe to read Brian's documentation/Jason's Comments.
   * _*ACTION*_: Jason to integrate his comments into Brian's wiki pages + fasterdata content.  Work on additional doc in accordance with the proposal.  
   * _*ACTION*_: Joe and Jeff to do gap analysis for DICE docs.
   * _*ACTION*_: Developers to comment/change time estimates 3.2.1 issues.
 * Long Term
   * _*ACTION*_: Nils will continue work on vmware build environment
   * _*ACTION*_: Andy will check out SLAC traceroute analysis. 
   * _*ACTION*_: Sowmya will do more performance analysis of XML generation.
   * _*ACTION*_: Jeff to still ask about further use of SVN as a content management system for psps.perfsonar.net

== Where ==

ESnet conference bridge:

 * GDS: 00113498255555
 * Direct Dial:  mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-883-7860 then 8255555# at the prompt. 

== Last Updated ==

$Id:$
