#summary June 4, 2012 Conference Call

=  June 4, 2012 Conference Call 2:30 p.m. EDT =

== Agenda/Minutes ==
  * Attendees: Andrew, Andy, Brian, Warren, Sowmya, Aaron, Kavitha, Jeff, John
     * Excused: 
== Follow-up on Actions  ==
    * *_ACTION_*: Jeff/Brian will work on redesigning pS-PS web presence.
      * Brian started and checked in some things, Jeff will review and add.
    * *_ACTION_*: Aaron will attempt to get the preview LiveCD kernel we used working for the latest release.
      * 
    * *_ACTION_*: Sowmya will send out LS overview by Friday for next week discussion.
    * *_ACTION_*: Nils will estimate how much effort CentOS 6 DBXML will be.
== Agenda Topics ==
  * LS status
    * Review thread with brazillian develpers.
  * Mesh Config
    * Lotsa discussion. Andy will contact Aaron about how to implement a sparse host grouping definition.
== Future Agenda Topics ==
  * Review LS update action plan
    * Use Case Review
    * Enumeration options
  * Roadmap
  * Geant interoperability (Any update?)
== Actions  ==
    * *_ACTION_*: Jeff/Brian will continue to work on redesigning pS-PS web presence.
== Notes ==
== Where ==
ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS: 00113498555555
 * Direct Dial: mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-423-9220 then 8555555# at the prompt.


== Last Updated ==

$Id$
