#summary October 15, 2012 Conference Call

=   October 15, 2012 Conference Call 2:30 p.m. EDT =

== Agenda/Minutes ==
  * Attendees: Aaron Brown, Eric Pouyoul, Sowmya Balasubramanian, Brian Tierney, Andy Lake, Nils Jacobson, Kavitha Kumar, Andrew Sides,

== Follow-up on Actions  ==
    * *_ACTION_*: Brian and Aaron will continue to work on redesigning pS-PS web presence.

== Agenda Topics ==
  * discussion with web10G developers
  * Developer Updates
    * Sowmya: 
    * Aaron: 
    * Andrew:
    * Andy:
    * Brian
    * Nils:
    * Kavitha:
  * Lookup Service Fields

== Future Agenda Topics ==
  * Roadmap
  * Geant interoperability (Any update?)
  
== Actions  ==
    * *_ACTION_*: Brian/Aaron will continue to work on redesigning pS-PS web presence.
    
== Notes ==
 * discussion with web10G developers
  * John: Looking at NDT code, he thinks it would be more straight-forward than NPAD. Team still looking at NPAD.
   * John: API should be frozen at the end of October, so people can use it. Shooting for Web10G on the next version of the toolkit. 
   * John: Working on back-porting Web10G to CentOS kernel.
   * John said he is willing to look at NDT and make some initial porting. Aaron said they also have someone at I2 or knows of someone who is interested. 
   * John said he can outline the steps needed and can workout the resources.
   * John will give an update next week on call
 * Developer Updates
  * Sowmya: 
   * Working LS subscribe 
  * Aaron: 
   * Wrote a little Web GUI for MaDDash that integrates into Toolkit
    * Not clear we want to add the GUI to the toolkit by default, need to think about it more.
    * Also need to figure out if we are going to update the directory.cgi. May just point to central location if use Aaron's current work since packaging is hard. No Rails RPM for CentOS 6.
  * Andrew:
   * Patched NPAD and cleaned up patching process for the RPM
   * iperf3 RPM uploaded. We can download and test that. Built for 32 bit and 64bit.
   * Built 64-bit web100 kernel
  * Andy:
   * Working on Linux Conversion, started some issues
  * Brian
   * Working with Jason and Aaron to come up with milestone for the next year or two.
  * Nils:
   * Working on issues.
    * Andy and Brian: Will talk to someone at LBL about running Nessus against the toolkit.
  * Kavitha:
   * Tested some new patches for NDT
 * Lookup Service Fields
  * Complex Types
   * Aaron sent comments and sated going through those
   * Aaron: Biggest question is how to handle complex types. For example associating contact information. Proposal for addressing in the document.
   * Eric: Does it make sense to have a contact type? same question for network elements.
   * If same information is shared between multiple records, it may make sense to split it out
   * Splitting up records can make record management easier, but it can make queries trickier
   * For complex types, going to talk to Martin and Ahmed
  * Domain field
   * Aaron: We should restrict to actual DNS domain otherwise we will get all sorts of things
   * Group agreed
  * Country
   * Aaron: Should restrict to ISO 2-letter country code
  * Service Fields
   * Remove event types from BWCTL, OWAMP, and other non-Measurement archives   
   * Proposed making domains not a required field or allowing it to be blank.  
   * Propose adding version to schema to allow namespaces. Andy argued maybe we don't need it.
   * Also suggested prepend custom keys with a domain to prevent collisions. Group agreed, should enforce in APIs.
   * Some of the keys contain name like snmp ma and such which are specific to implementations. 
    
    
== Where ==
ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS: 00113498555555
 * Direct Dial: mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-423-9220 then 8555555# at the prompt.
The free Cisco Jabber desktop video conferencing service also works with the ESnet ECS service. 
Just register and download the client from http:// ciscojabbervideo.com, and connect using the meeting ID:  8555555@es.net



== Last Updated ==

$Id$