#summary Mar 12, 2012 Conference Call

=  March 12, 2012 Conference Call 2:30 p.m. EST =

== Agenda/Minutes ==
  * Attendees: Brian, Andy, Sowmya, Nils, Aaron, Kavitha, Jeff
     * Excused: 

== Follow-up on Actions  ==
     * Previous Items
        *  *_ACTION_*: Andy tagged several items for bug fix release 3.2.2, and assigned owners to tasks. Goal it to complete these by Feb 27
           *done*
        * *_ACTION_*: Everyone to look at the "Requirements" that Aaron added to the use case document, and think about performance requirements. (Waiting for input from Matt and Tom.)
        * *_ACTION_*: Jeff to start document with new structure for web site that focuses on support of data intensive virtual science communities. Brian will then make a pass too.
        * *_ACTION_*: Jeff will respond to the Atlas reqeusts for features.
           *done*
        * *_ACTION_*: Nils will go through issue reports to improve testing checklist.
           *done*
        * *_ACTION_*: Andy will setup a meeting with Atlas (Brian and Jeff) to discuss improving test/release process.
           *done*
        * *_ACTION_*: Kavitha will review LS Use Case doc for completeness.
           *done*
        * *_ACTION_*: Aaron will finish 3.2.2 issues by Wednesday
           *done*
        * *_ACTION_*: Sowmya will create rpms when Aaron's changes are done. 
           *done*
        * *_ACTION_*: Andy will update checklist with some 3.2.2 specific items. Will compare to list Nils already started.
        * *_ACTION_*: OWAMP sawtooth issue: Andy will turn on raw data collection on ESnet to see if that reveals anything
          * Partial fix - patch for pS-B for full data selection.
          * Still finding loss with Geant interaction. Will look at Hades code and try and get a toolkit installed somewhere on Amsterdam side.
     * Long Term
        *
== Agenda Topics ==
  * Licensing
     * Brian, Jeff and all good with all new releases using Apache 2.0 license. This will allow releases to be put in debian and other software release mirrors.
  * Discuss pending bug-fix release.
     * Andy is looking for testers.
     * Andy is working down the checklist.
== Future Agenda Topics ==
  * Review LS update action plan
    * Use Case Review
    * Enumeration options
  * Roadmap
== Actions  ==
        * *_ACTION_*: Andy will update checklist with some 3.2.2 specific items. Will compare to list Nils already started.
        * *_ACTION_*: Brian will see if SURFnet is willing to put up a toolkit host.
        * *_ACTION_*: Aaron will modify pS-PS/owamp/bwctl license.
        * *_ACTION_*: Jeff will add -4/-6 flags to owamp/bwctl

== Actions  ==
     * Long Term
        *

== Where ==
ESnet conference bridge:

 * GDS: 00113498555555
 * Direct Dial: mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-423-9220 then 8555555# at the prompt.


== Last Updated ==

$Id$
