#summary August 27, 2012 Conference Call

=  August 27, 2012 Conference Call 2:30 p.m. EDT =

== Agenda/Minutes ==
  * Attendees: Chris Rapier, Andrew Sides, Warren Mathews, Brian Tierney, Sowmya Balasubramanian, Aaron Brown, Nils Jacobson, Andy Lake
  
== Follow-up on Actions  ==
    * *_ACTION_*: Brian will continue to work on redesigning pS-PS web presence.

== Agenda Topics ==
  * Developer Updates
    * Andy: 
    * Sowmya: 
    * Brian:
    * Nils:  
    * Aaron: 
    * Warren
  * Web10G Discussion (rough agenda, very open to change)
   * Brief status update of projects
   * Collaboration areas
    * Web10G version of the toolkit?
    * What to do about NDT/NPAD?
   
== Future Agenda Topics ==
  * Roadmap
  * Geant interoperability (Any update?)
  
== Actions  ==
    * *_ACTION_*: Brian/Aaron will continue to work on redesigning pS-PS web presence.
    
== Notes ==

 * pSB MA key issues
  * User noticed order of keys when passed to graph, the shape of the graph changed
  * Have multiple keys for same data because host and IP changed
  * Tried putting sleep between requests, didn't change anything.
  * Compared subjects of request but didn't compare entire request. We should do this to see if we can at least generate reproducibility.
 * Web10G
  * Follow-on to web100, a number of performance improvements, better metrics, and renewed effort to get into mainline kernel. Adding metrics for new congestion control algorithms.
  * More info at http://web10g.org
  * Hope to have a realtime tcptrace graphic tool by I2 member meeting. 
  * NDT and NPAD (or some equivalent) needs to work with Web10G for toolkit
  * Chris has started looking at NPAD locally, but very complex and uses multiple languages.
  * Chris is thinking about reviewing NDT to just identify the challenges. From what he knows already, a lot of the variable names changed.
  * ESnet has a contractor who will be working on Web10G support for iperf3 and bwctl support for iperf3
  * Brian will put contractor in touch with Web!)G so he can stay up-to-date on latest codebase.
  * Currently backporting patches to kernel
  * Web10G Developer's workshop at next JointTechs. It would be good to have someone from pS-pS to talk about work, especially if there is a new iperf tool. 
  * CentOS 6 kernel is important to pS-PS team
  * Next version of Web10G lib should be out at end of this week
 * Developer Updates
    * Andy: 
     * Went to OSG meeting in Madison last week. 
     * NPAD was found to be eating a bunch of memory on a bunch of boxes. Likely the result of a bad interaction with a scan-bot/web-bot.  Need more data a only had one set of logs since NPAD clears log on restart. May just do regular restarts.
     * Brian: Should have meeting to discuss LS migration. Clear from ATLAS/OSG meeting they really want a new LS.
    * Andrew:
     * Working on make_path issue in toolkit configure script
     * Want to do a little more testing with Andy, will then make el6 and ISOs available
    * Sowmya: 
     * pSB bug (see above)
     * Integrating Quartz into LS to do thread scheduling
     * Working on pub/sub interface
    * Brian
     * Items addressed above
    * Nils: 
     * Testing Aaron's mesh config 
     * Continuing work on LS config. Adding count by countries. 
    * Aaron: 
     * Items addressed above
    * Warren
     * Has been implementing data prediction algorithms. Team will have something packaged soon for testing.
     * Doing some work in getting perfSONAR to Square Kilometer Array (SKA). Deployed maddash into their portal. The server is currently running on Warren's machine, would like to move it on SKA machine. 
     * Will look into getting a URL where can see current dashboard and also list of SKA sites if they have public pSB measurement archives.

    
== Where ==
ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS: 00113498555555
 * Direct Dial: mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-423-9220 then 8555555# at the prompt.


== Last Updated ==

$Id$