#summary October 29, 2012 Conference Call

=   October 29, 2012 Conference Call 2:30 p.m. EDT =

== Agenda/Minutes ==
  * Attendees: Andy, Andrew, Brian, Sowmya, Eric, Kavitha, Aaron 

== Follow-up on Actions  ==
    * *_ACTION_*: Brian and Aaron will continue to work on redesigning pS-PS web presence.

== Agenda Topics ==
  * Developer Updates
    * Andy:
     * No updates 
     * Fine with doing OSG presentation
    * Sowmya: 
     * Has been working on document
     * Tried LiveCD with CentOS 6 on ps-lat. It can identify the root drive but on reboot it can't find disk. 
     * Aaron: Try mounting whatever device it indicates and look for nptools directory.
    * Kavitha:
     * Reviewing NDT comments, and will probably build another NDT RPM
    * Aaron: 
     * SC starts next week.  
    * Andrew
     * Out sick last week
     * Rebuild LiveCd and LiveUSB. 
     * Taking crack at building 64-bit RPMS this week.
   * Eric 
    * No updates
   * Brian
    * No updates
  * Sowmya's documents
    * Does domain need to be part of the base?
     * Eric commented it probably doesn't belong in base which agreed with Aaron's previous comment
    * Does operator belong in record?
     * Consensus was it does not. It is part of query language so it is a reserved work, but not a record. 
    * Do we need event-ype?
     * Aaron and group agreed that it does not belong and was specific to old representation. 
   * Is communities perfSONAR specific?
     * we think it is so we will make it part of that. 
   *  Aaron asked how the client will know what source and destination the MA uses to refer to the host?
    * This is really a problem with an MA and can narrow it down once they have the MA list
  * What address do you register based on location?
    * How do people know which address to use when choice depends on use case?
    * Andy suggested rule of thumb where you register only addresses when thy add new info, with preference for hostname. 
  * Do we need to support subnet operations?
    * Use cases didn't demonstrate need for it when we evaluated those. Can revisit if we decide we need it.
    * We will keep the field for now but maybe note exact matches
  * Need example of getting point-to-point data versus data associated with a single interface.
  * JSON schema
   * We don't want server enforcing schema or else every time someone added new fields we would need to update all servers.
   * Aaron: We have defined things, is there a way we could give clients schema and they could use the schema to validate things returned by the server? Eric thinks that its a good idea.    

== Future Agenda Topics ==
  * Roadmap
  * Geant interoperability (Any update?)
  
== Actions  ==
    * *_ACTION_*: Brian/Aaron will continue to work on redesigning pS-PS web presence.
    
== Notes ==

== Where ==
ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS: 00113498555555
 * Direct Dial: mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-423-9220 then 8555555# at the prompt.
The free Cisco Jabber desktop video conferencing service also works with the ESnet ECS service. 
Just register and download the client from http:// ciscojabbervideo.com, and connect using the meeting ID:  8555555@es.net



== Last Updated ==

$Id$