#summary October 14, 2013 Conference Call

=   October 14, 2013 Conference Call 1:00 p.m. EDT =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 * Attendees: Andy Lake, Jason Zurawski, Sowmya Balasubramanian, Aaron Brown, Brian Tierney, Eric Boyd, Ken Miller
  
== Follow-up on Actions  ==

TBD

== Agenda Topics ==

 * Developer Updates
   * Andy
   * Jason
   * Aaron
   * Sowmya
   * Eric
   * Brian
 * NTAC Update from Ken Miller
 * V6/V4 Dual Mesh Testing
 * Program approach and next steps
== Future Agenda Topics ==
  * Roadmap
  
== Actions  ==
 
TBD
 
== Notes ==
 * Developer Updates
   * Andy
    * Looked at 3.2.2 issues did a little organization in tracker
    * Action: Schedule meeting this week to go through tracker
   * Jason
    * SCInet work
    * Working on software that measures wget performance and plots results
   * Sowmya
    * Packaged sLS. Sent RPM to others for testing. Requested Aaron could update.
   * Aaron
    * As part of dual-homed work, looking at consolidating the "master" scripts. Currently 4 different ones.
    * Brian: Should we also consolidate formats? Aaron: Possibly but information is very different. 
    * Merged Web10g branch of NDT into trunk. need others to verify
   * Brian
    * Gave a talk at NANOG
    * Good questions, got thinking about better dual-stack approach
   * Eric 
    * See program approach
 * NTAC Update from Ken Miller
  * NTAC had a group of 25 people that got together to look at metric availability and headroom.
  * A couple documents being generated
  * looking at network holistically may be more desirable. This means setting some baselines and sharing more beyond netflow data and usage,
  * Also looking at determining when a link should be upgraded. 
  * Questions about how to test against baseline (i.e. is there existing tools? do we need to develop new ones?)
  * Will post more information soon
  * Jason: Really should look hard at using owamp. Smokeping is easy and has nice front-end but ICMP misses a lot. 
  * Jason: Any thought to SDN monitoring? Ken: Needs to be more thought, doing some initial work
  * Jason: Might be a good idea to do a write-up on how to do IPv4 vs IPv6 hostnames similar to firewall documents. 
  * Ken: Also looking at routing policy
 * V6/V4 Dual Mesh Testing
  * See updates
 * program approach and next steps
  * perfSONAR summit a couple weeks ago. short-term agreement on development tasks 
  * Plan to go through outstanding issues list. 
  * Looking at IU's process and how we can get feedback from them
  * Talking to GEANT on continuing collaboration
  * Might do a requirements workshop
  * Will be using SmartSheets to track tasks. 
== Where ==
ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS: 00113498555555
 * Direct Dial: mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-423-9220 then 8555555# at the prompt.
The free Cisco Jabber desktop video conferencing service also works with the ESnet ECS service. 
Just register and download the client from http:// ciscojabbervideo.com, and connect using the meeting ID:  8555555@es.net

== Last Updated ==

$Id$