#summary February 4, 2013 Conference Call

=   February 4, 2013 Conference Call 2:30 p.m. EDT =

== Agenda/Minutes ==
  * Attendees: Aaron, Jason, Brian, Andrew, Andy, Kavitha
  
== Follow-up on Actions  ==
    * *_ACTION_*: Brian and Aaron will continue to work on redesigning pS-PS web presence.

== Agenda Topics ==
  * Developer Updates
    * Aaron
     * Updated mesh config RPM with ability to specify non-standard ports
     * Compiled version of Web10G with kernel.
     * Talked to Chris, said NDT patch works but not sure grabbing all the right data
    * Kavitha
     * No updates
    * Andy
     * Working on rolling out Linux on owamp servers
     * Installed new mesh config RPM, looks like it worked
    * Andrew
     * Asked about interface setup scripts. Solution probably to update python script 
     * Working on remaining 3.3 issues
    * Brian
     * No updates beyon what's coming up on agenda.
     * Been testing iperf3 with new JSON format. Can likely use the -f flag. 
      * Compatibility may be an issue if remote side is not iperf3.
  * perfSONAR Web Site
   * Should be easy enough to convert to CMS
   * We should keep static content under CMS and keep more dynamic content on google code wiki
   * Not too time sensitive on kicking off Internet2 server, but should do quickly
   * If we were to move perfsonar.net, we'd need approval from all parties involved.
   * Also need to think about name change. Maybe dropping PS would be a good thing and just calling it "perfSONAR Toolkit" or similar. Want to be able o distinguish from other distributions to ease communication.
  * Pythia
   * Warren has presented some information about Pythia. 
   * Andy installed on ps-lat.es.net. There are RPMs for client side that upload to central server. 
   * Almost have it uploading data 
  * Release status
    * Fixed a number of issues last week
     * A few we need to fix
     * Get NDT RPM in repo
     * Get Traceroute GUI running 
     * Fix RH6 display issue  
    * Decided we should have upgrade procedure for RC2
    * Try to get other issues done by end of this week.

== Future Agenda Topics ==
  * Roadmap
  * Geant interoperability (Any update?)
  
== Actions  ==
    * *_ACTION_*: Brian/Aaron will continue to work on redesigning pS-PS web presence.
    
== Notes ==
  == Where ==
ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS: 00113498555555
 * Direct Dial: mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-423-9220 then 8555555# at the prompt.
The free Cisco Jabber desktop video conferencing service also works with the ESnet ECS service. 
Just register and download the client from http:// ciscojabbervideo.com, and connect using the meeting ID:  8555555@es.net



== Last Updated ==

$Id$