#summary September 30, 2013 Conference Call

=   September 30, 2013 Conference Call 1:00 p.m. EDT =

== Agenda/Minutes ==
  * Attendees: Andy, Jason, Aaron, Sowmya, Eric B.
  
== Follow-up on Actions  ==

== Agenda Topics ==


== Future Agenda Topics ==
  * Roadmap
  
== Actions  ==
 * Developer Updates
   * Andy
   * Jason
   * Aaron
   * Sowmya
   * Eric
   * Brian
 * how to handle dual-homed hosts? (Aaron)
 * how to bwctl scheduling options? (Aaron)
 * update on call with Geant folks (Brian) 
 
== Notes ==
 * Developer Updates
   * Andy
    * No updates, helped with a few issues on the list
   * Jason
    * Worked on LS issue on the list
    * Finishing up some slides for presentation
   * Aaron
     * See bwctl topics
     * There is bwctl_debug version. Will give it consistent version number so can add on ESnet
   * Sowmya
    * Upgraded antg.es.net to RC version
    * Testing pub/sub with a few test servers. goes well ten upgrade others
  * Eric
    * Met internally with product management and others and are getting up to speed on partnership
  * Brian
    * More bwctl/iperf3 testing
    * Had a meeting with GEANT3 to talk about plans going forward. Still very early.  
 * how to handle dual-homed hosts? (Aaron)
  * See's two option:
   * In meshconfig specify one address for owamp and one for bwctl
    * Would need work on GUIs and generation of ls_registration_daemon file
   * Phase 2 the GUI creates a mesh config instead of writing files directly
   * Somewhat related is how much co-scheduling we allow also some tests of same type my want t use different interfaces. Could lead to configuration that's too confusing.
 * how to bwctl scheduling options? (Aaron)
  * Aaron is working on adding settings for this. We will have to figure sane options that don't cause too much complexity for users. 
 * update on call with Geant folks (Brian)
  * See Brian's update
  
== Where ==
ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS: 00113498555555
 * Direct Dial: mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-423-9220 then 8555555# at the prompt.
The free Cisco Jabber desktop video conferencing service also works with the ESnet ECS service. 
Just register and download the client from http:// ciscojabbervideo.com, and connect using the meeting ID:  8555555@es.net



== Last Updated ==

$Id$