#summary March 18, 2013 Conference Call

=   March 18, 2013 Conference Call 2:30 p.m. EDT =

== Agenda/Minutes ==
  * Attendees: Sowmya, Nils, Aaron, Brian, Kavitha, Andy
  
== Follow-up on Actions  ==
    * *_ACTION_*: Brian and Aaron will continue to work on redesigning pS-PS web presence.

== Agenda Topics ==
  * Developer Updates
     
  * Release Status
  * Roadmap
  
== Future Agenda Topics ==
  * Roadmap

== Actions  ==
    * *_ACTION_*: Brian/Aaron will continue to work on redesigning pS-PS web presence.
    
== Notes ==
  * Developer Updates
   * Andy
    * Worked on getting release out last week
    * Will bug people on various calls about testing
  * Sowmya
   * Working on LS subscribe feature
  * Aaron
   * Got CentOS 5 kernel out
   * Brian asked about GUI. Its been awhile since Aaron worked on it. A few issues on MeshConfig could be probably closed
  * Nils
    * No updates
  * Brian
   * Did iperf3+bwctl testing and found some issues. Will let group
  * Kavitha 
   * No Updates
  * Release Status
   * Look at issues marked as 3.3 and assigned to you. Close, fix, or let us know if you think its something you can't have done in the next week. 
  * Roadmap
   * Brian has started [2013Roadmap] document for next few months. Made a few updates today
   * Q2 starts in 2 weeks, so think of a lot of it as start in Q2 as opposed to finish then
   * Aaron said he thinks it captures most of the big things and priorities looks right. Still need to do some resource planning on I2 side before can commit too much. Will know more in next week or two.
   
== Where ==
ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS: 00113498555555
 * Direct Dial: mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-423-9220 then 8555555# at the prompt.
The free Cisco Jabber desktop video conferencing service also works with the ESnet ECS service. 
Just register and download the client from http:// ciscojabbervideo.com, and connect using the meeting ID:  8555555@es.net



== Last Updated ==

$Id$