#summary December 16, 2013 Conference Call

=   December 16, 2013 Conference Call 1:00 p.m. EST =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 * Attendees: Aaron Brown, Jason Zurawski, Dan Doyle, Sowmya Balasubramanian, Brian Tierney
  
== Follow-up on Actions  ==

TBD

== Agenda Topics ==
 * Developer Updates
   * Andy
   * Aaron
   * Sowmya
   * Brian
   * Jason
   * Eric
 * Support Statement for CentOS 5 kernel - creation of a 'vault'
{{{
Subject:

pS Performance Toolkit 3.2 End of Life (EOL)

Body:

Greetings:

This is the notification that the scheduled the End of Life (EOL) for the pS Performance Toolkit v3.2 will be Friday February 28th, 2014.  All architectures of the pS Performance Toolkit v3.2 (i386, x86_64) are impacted, and the software will be removed from the mirrors on that date.  

A frozen version will be migrated to a vault (instructions will be provided for use of this construct at a later date) and v3.2 of this software will remain available indefinitely.  You may use the vault in the same way you have used the mirrors in the past, however no updates will be released for any of the software in this location moving forward.

Accordingly, the perfSONAR-PS Project strongly recommends that you migrate any pS Performance Toolkit installs to the latest version (3.3).  

Thanks;

The pS Performance Toolkit Development Team
}}}
 * NDT Flash Interface

== Notes ==
 * Developer Updates
   * Andy
     * Still no kernel SRPM uploaded
     * Working on deploying esmond
   * Aaron
    * Been working on regular testing framework
    * Working on iperf3 interval issue
   * Sowmya
    * Sent in mail: The only update from my side. I got back to working on sLS. The multicache mode passes the basic case(1 core and 1 LS). I am testing it right now with some of the other configuration options.
   * Jason
    * Post-SC clean-up
   * Brian
    * At the ATLAS meeting talked about dashboard. I have a meeting on wednesday.
    * Official iperf3 release at end of week
    * Trying to come-up with date for perfSONAR workshop
   * Dan Doyle
    * Lead technical resource from IU. Will be joining calls in future. 
 * Support Statement for CentOS 5 kernel - creation of a 'vault'
   * Action: Aaron will setup a separate vault
 * NDT Flash Interface
  * Should we use it on the toolkit?
  * Mlab is working with it
  * Will continue looking at it and see how things progress
 * No meeting next two weeks due to holidays

== Future Agenda Topics ==

TBD
   
== Actions  ==
 
TBD 

== Where ==
ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS: 00113498555555
 * Direct Dial: mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-423-9220 then 8555555# at the prompt.

The free Cisco Jabber desktop video conferencing service also works with the ESnet ECS service. 
Just register and download the client from http://ciscojabbervideo.com, and connect using the meeting ID:  8555555@es.net

== Last Updated ==

$Id$