#summary August 12, 2013 Conference Call

=   August 12, 2013 Conference Call 1:00 p.m. EDT =

== Agenda/Minutes ==
  * Attendees: Jason, Sowmya, Aaron, Brian, Warren, Andy, Martin
  
== Follow-up on Actions  ==

== Agenda Topics ==
  * Developer Updates
   * Aaron
   * Andy
   * Sowmya
   * Jason
  * 3.3.1 status
  * Survey Results
  * BWCTL Ping/Traceroute/owping Support
  * Level 1 and Level 2 Install next steps
  * GATech Future Projects 
  * Host security items
  
== Future Agenda Topics ==
  * Roadmap
  
== Actions  ==

== Notes ==
  * Developer Updates
   * Andy
    * Fixed a few 3.3.1 issues
    * Helped a few people on mailing list
    * See other items
   * Aaron
    * BWCTL changes (see later in agenda)
   * Sowmya
    * Wrap-up some of the LS
    * POW
    * OWAMP graph fix
   * Jason
     * Installfest was successful
     * Paper submitted
   * Brian
    * Playing around with level 1 install
    * Schedule perfSONAR summit with ESnet senior leadership and i2 leadership to nail-down resource commitments. Meet with other leaders shortly thereafter.
   * Warren
    * See agenda
   * Martin
    * No updates
  * 3.3.1 status
   * MeshConfig fixed
   * Just waiting on LiveCD
   * Will look at non-standard port meshconfig issue
  * Survey Results
   * Pretty good sample, wide spectrum of users that have run  Toolkit for a long time and a short-time
   * 75% use Netinstall, about 1/3 use LiveCD
   * Some confusion about v6 support. Should probably be cleaner how it's presented.
   * Maybe should send email with LS details at some point
   * Dual-homing a big issue
    * would not running owamp continuously help? probably not.
    * Probably a high priority, but not sure who to assign to yet
  * BWCTL Ping/Traceroute/owping Support
    * Aaron modified bwctl to support ping, traceroute, tracepath and owping
    * Might need to add some hooks to disable tools
    * Could do cool things like make traceroute maps of servers running bwctl. 
    * Action: Come back after summit and assign recource
  * Level 1 and Level 2 Install next steps
   * Put together new meta-packages for Level and Level 2 install
   * A few DOE people we should share these with
   * Notes from Brian:
    * What requires rrdtool?
    * install iperf3
    * Delete ndt and npad from the default config
    * Brian will look a ktune as additional package to help tune stuff
  * GATech Future Work 
   * Lots of things we can use help on
   * Dual-homing might be a good item since a lot of schools have a setup
   * PinGER replacement could be interesting. smokeping might be a good item
  * Host security items
   * Tried several host-based security tools
   * Enabled ssh throttling, but requires iptables. Need to understand iptables performance impact
   * Ran ossec, requires email server. Not suggesting by default, but might be good to provide instructions on how to use
   * Ran fail2ban which scrapes logs for DDOS attacks. sends email.
   * rkhunter looks for anything installed. 
   * Jason would recommend fail2ban, denyhost, and rkhunter
   * Could add to nptoolkit-configure.py and admin_info on web page (or similar)
   * aaron suggested dump to root mail buy default, maybe add postfix rule
   * Action: Should make sure we add the iptables file
   * Action: Add issue to configure SMTP server
   

== Where ==
ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS: 00113498555555
 * Direct Dial: mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-423-9220 then 8555555# at the prompt.
The free Cisco Jabber desktop video conferencing service also works with the ESnet ECS service. 
Just register and download the client from http:// ciscojabbervideo.com, and connect using the meeting ID:  8555555@es.net



== Last Updated ==

$Id$