#summary August 27, 2014 Conference Call

=   August 27 2014 Conference Call 3:00PM GMT/11:00AM EDT/8:00AM PDT =

 * Attendees: Brian, Dan, Michael, Aaron, Antoine, Alex, Rade, Stefan, Fausto, Murilo

== Agenda Topics ==

 * Developer Updates
  * Andy
  * Ivan
  * Roland
  * Jason 
    * Unavailable this week due to travel
    * Still tinkering with web site and working on some documentation with the LHC guys.   
  * Aaron
  * Brian
  * Sowmya
  * Michael
  * Murilo
 * 3.4 status
 
== Notes ==
 * Developer Updates
  * Andy
   * Updated esnet hosts to new MA
   * Debugging MA with aaron
   * Some profiling of the nagios checks. Some pretty high initialization time. 
   * Working on install docs
  * Brian
   * Survey results are interesting. Lots of request for Debian support.
   * Added a public central MA at perfsonar-archive.es.net. Plan to use it for gridftp data and cubox testsing
   * Has an ARM repo with RPMs. Testing it still
  * Dan
   * No updates
  * Michael
   * Working on remaining tasks for charts. Added ping, updating color scheme, many other tasks. 
   * Action: Build a new RPM. 
  * Aaron
   * Debugging bwctl
  * Antoine
   * Testing 3.4 and OPPD
   * Action: Level 1 and Level 2 need to updated. Andy will create issue. Add oppd.
  * Rade and Stefan
   * Looking at new sLS
   * Action: Antoine will start email thread with Sowmya, Andy, Stefan and Rade to work-out details
   * Action: Aaron will send jabber info to list again
   * Working on pSUI
  * Murilo
   * Interested in displaying lots of tests on graphs.
  * Fausto
   * No updates 
  * Alex
   * Would like to talk to Brian about perfSONAR topics. Will schedule a call.
 * 3.4 status
  * Looks like next week should have everything done
  
== Future Agenda Topics ==

== Actions  ==

== Where ==
Please click this URL to start or join. https://ESNet.zoom.us/j/222169727 
  
Join from a dial-in phone: 
    Dial: +1 (415) 762-9988 or +1 (646) 568-7788
    Meeting ID: 222 169 727 
    International numbers available: https://ESNet.zoom.us/zoomconference 

Join from a H.323/SIP room system: 

    Dial: 4.34.125.155 (US East) or 4.35.64.154 (US West) 
    Meeting ID: 222 169 727 

For example: 222169727@4.34.125.155

== Last Updated ==

$Id$