#summary June 25, 2014 Conference Call

=   June 25, 2014 Conference Call 3:00PM GMT/11:00AM EDT/8:00AM PDT =

Attendees: 
  
== Agenda Topics ==

  * Developer Updates
   * Andy
   * Aaron
   * Sowmya
   * Brian
   * Dan
   * Michael
   * Roland 
   * Ivan
   * Antoine
  * RC1 Status

== Notes ==

  * Developer Updates
   * Andy
    * Finished 3.4 issues
    * Migrated maddash to github
   * Dan
    * Gathering hardware
    * cleaning up plots with Michael
   * Michael
    * Working on the charting, added reverse direction
    * Added initial implementation of turning on/off displays
    * Can also move through time on displays now
   * Brian
    * iperf3 release
    * Action: move bootstrap to perfsonar.net
   * Sowmya
    * Finished up issues
    * Remaining issues are post-rc1
    * Debugging ps-west issue with timeouts.   
   * Aaron
    * Working on cacti issue
    * EPEL packages XML-RPC, broke the config daemon.
    * bwctl crashes with udp tests
   * Antoine
    * Been given green-light to put sLS into production
    * Finishing last version of MDM MP. Once that is done, want to fully integrate stuff into git (probably next week)
   * Murilo
    * Joined for first time, welcome.
  * Cacti issue
   * Have fix, will get out today
  * Support rotation
   * Will add two people per slot, one U.S. and one European. May do this longer term due to timezones.
  * Review 3.4 status (ready for internal testing?)
   * Ready to build for internal testing
   * Dan will share notes on 854
   * Antoine can setup mirror on server. Will work with Aaron.
  * Ping and OWAMP event types
   * Andy will update event types with -bidir at the end.
  * Ability to register service access levels (i.e. public vs. private)
   * ACTION: Andy will add list of values.

== Future Agenda Topics ==

== Actions  ==

== Where ==
ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS: 00113498555555
 * Direct Dial: mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-423-9220 then 8555555# at the prompt.

The free Cisco Jabber desktop video conferencing service also works with the ESnet ECS service. 
Just register and download the client from http://ciscojabbervideo.com, and connect using the meeting ID:  8555555@es.net

== Last Updated ==

$Id$