August 18 2014 Conference Call 3:30PM EDT

 * Attendees: Brian, Andy, Jason, Michael

= Introduction =

Meeting for discussing the state of charts for RC3 and beyond.

= Notes =

== Items that need to be done for 3.4 release ==
 * ~~ Ability to share chart URL ~~
 * ~~ Add additional chart parameters to the URL ~~ - See issue 959
 * Scaling problem Pagination on table to help with scaling problem with many tests - See issue 972 
 * Improve display so throughput/latency don't overwrite each other so much
 * Add median option for latency - See issue 977
 * Negative latency: add a warning for now
   * if not too hard, add a overlay icon on the lower axis
 * optional Log scale for packet loss (if not too hard)

== Items that need to be done for RC3 ==
 * ~~Add ping to charts~~
 * ~~Style issues~~
 * ~~ Add retransmits to throughput tooltips ~~
 * ~~Use base data for < 1 day timeframes (maybe 3-days if reasonable)~~
 * Scaling problem Pagination on table to help with scaling problem with many tests - See issue 972


Done
 * ~~Remove -PS from table page header - See issue 968~~
 * ~~Make links to charts more obvious/add "Click on a hostname to see a graph of the results" ~~
 * ~~Fix weird whitespace with multiple hosts at top of individual chart page~~
~~ Style issues ~~
 * ~~Red/green may be bad for color-blind people (will someone follow-up on this)? - See issue 969~~
 * ~~Traceroute page link on chart~~ - issue 976

=== Scaling issues ===
There are some scaling issues with the table that lists the test hosts. If there are too many tests, it times out. Need to make this scale. For now we'll focus on pagination, but here are some other possibilities.

* Pagination? Maybe some MA-side stuff to help with this.
* Parallelize?
* Have a threshold that doesn’t get you the summaries if it’s over the threshold? ? Add a button to load them with a disclaimer that it may take a while?
* Progressively load them? (not something we can do with the current library)

 
=== Questions ===

Eventually will want to see v4 and v6 on the same plot. How to best handle this?

If someone has configured v4 and v6 testing on the same host?
Currently if you pass in hostnames you get everything? 


=== Notes on Negative latency ===
 * Not sure what we want to do.
 * May be helpful to show a warning that you have negative latency
 * Link or popup with more info - 2 main causes:
  * Bad clock skew (ntp config)
  * testing to something extremely close (hard to get good accuracy with clocks between them)
 * Overlay an icon indicating that you have negative latency at the top or bottom, 


== Items that can wait until 3.4.1 ==
 * Zooming is difficult, sometimes get stuck
 * Reset zoom button and/or double-click to reset it?


=== Indicate Failures ===
Might also be able to plot bwctl errors and failures (event type: failures):
 * show icon at top or bottom at timestamp where those occur (good with other types as well)


== other 3.4.1 items ==
Create a separate "details" page

Box plots:
 * grabs stuff from JSON
 * nice but not high priority
 * Wait to do it right — add to detail page in the future

Might also be able to plot bwctl errors and failures (event type: failures):
 * Show icon at top or bottom  at timestamp where those occur (good with other types as well)