#summary November 6, 2014 Conference Call

=   November 6, 2014 Conference Call 4:00PM GMT/11:00AM EST/8:00AM PST/6:00PM CEST =

* Attendees: Ivan, Brian, Jason, Dan, Michael, Aaron, Roland, Sowmya, Eric
* Apologise: Szymon (I'm not able to attend calls on Thursday)

== Agenda Topics ==
 * Developer Updates
  * Andy
   * Esmond performance improvements
  * Ivan 
   * Finished deployment of two perfsonar boxes on DANTE 100G network
   * Will send LS registration question to list
  * Brian
   * Performance testing Mira box. Only 1 core but two NICs. Same price has CuBox. Does 800Mbps.
  * Jason
   * SC installation 
   * Powerpoint template
  * Dan
   * Automation bits polished-up
   * Will be playing with Mira box
  * Michael
   * Looking at low cost nodes. Grabbing a BananaPi, looks interesting.
   * Looking at barbones kits
   * Looking at security related items. Requesting security scans.
  * Aaron
   * Kernels out 
   * Some web socket performance testing. Can do mid-500mbps on back-to-back testing. Can get 1Gbps to loopback.
  * Roland
   * Looking at some new deployment scenarios
  * Sowmya
   * Working on LS Cache design document
  * Antoine
   * New person working on debian
  * Eric
   * See project team item
 * Project Teams
  * Management group has organized project teams per last week's discussion
  * Re-format meeting so teams report on progress in first 10-15 minutes
  * In two weeks have initial design document and project plan (does not need to be perfect)
 * Deployment Scenarios and Strategies
  * Best common practices for grabbing updates packages
  * Ivan curious how others do it
   * Esnet uses cfengine to manage hosts. Has own repo for PS packages that only gets packages after they are tested. Test by manually updating 2-3 hosts first then push to internal repo.
   * IU: Same thing but use Puppet instead of cfengine
   * Ivan will join related project teams and we will continue discussion
 * Jenkins demo 
  

== Notes ==
 
== Future Agenda Topics ==

== Actions  ==

== Where ==
Please click this URL to start or join. https://ESNet.zoom.us/j/222169727 
  
Join from a dial-in phone: 
    Dial: +1 (415) 762-9988 or +1 (646) 568-7788
    Meeting ID: 222 169 727 
    International numbers available: https://ESNet.zoom.us/zoomconference 

Join from a H.323/SIP room system: 

    Dial: 4.34.125.155 (US East) or 4.35.64.154 (US West) 
    Meeting ID: 222 169 727 

For example: 222169727@4.34.125.155

== Last Updated ==

$Id$