#summary October 1, 2014 Conference Call

=   October 1, 2014 Conference Call 3:00PM GMT/11:00AM EDT/8:00AM PDT/5:00PM CEST =

 * Attendees: Rade, Stefan, Roland, Shawn, Aaron, Sowmya, Dan, John H., Brian, Szymon, Andy
 * Apologies: 
  * Jason - shellshock damage control + small web updates.  Workshop at CYBERA went well, couple of dev suggestions will put into issue tracker

== Agenda Topics ==
 * Developer Updates
 * Shellshock and auto-updates
 * Should NDT and/or NPAD be disabled by default?
 * 3.4 status
 * agenda for Oct30 meeting

== Notes ==
 * Developer Updates
  * Andy
   * Dealing with shellshock
   * Working on doc, just havemeshconfig section
   * Testing new BWCTL
 * Rade
  * Fixed some pSUI bugs. Something changed with BWCTL MP
  * Will write email to Szymon with details 
 * Roland
  * New OPPD things fixed
 * Shawn
  * Put together page on shellshock
  * Using it as chance to update configs
  * Internally will discuss at pundit things like want from dev team
  * Contacted paristraceroute devs. They will be providing RPMs.
 * Aaron
  * New Shellshock RPMs
  * Found BWCTL issue, was trying to take iface name and use it as hostname
 * Sowmya
  * ps-west went down last Wed. Underlying VM issue,w as not getting requested resources
 * Szymon
  * No updates 
 * Brian
  * No updates
 * Dan
  * See Aaron's update
 * John 
  * Working with APAN to push out shellshock updates
 * Shellshock and auto-updates
  * Agreed on plan outlined in email
  * Andy taking issue since Aaron out the next couple days
  * Andy will make lots of notices in docs and on services page about this could break things
 * Should NDT and/or NPAD be disabled by default?
  * Decided both will be off for new installs. NPAD sparsely used, groups like WLCG do not require NDT and NDY may interfere with tests
 * 3.4 status
  * Outstanding issues:
    * BWCTL issue
    * Dual-interface display issue
    * Finish docs
    * Potential user migration issue
  * Shoot for Monday but may slip
 * agenda for Oct30 meeting
  * A few things can be 5 min lightning talks
  * Brian will take another pass and send around

== Future Agenda Topics ==

== Actions  ==

== Where ==
Please click this URL to start or join. https://ESNet.zoom.us/j/222169727 
  
Join from a dial-in phone: 
    Dial: +1 (415) 762-9988 or +1 (646) 568-7788
    Meeting ID: 222 169 727 
    International numbers available: https://ESNet.zoom.us/zoomconference 

Join from a H.323/SIP room system: 

    Dial: 4.34.125.155 (US East) or 4.35.64.154 (US West) 
    Meeting ID: 222 169 727 

For example: 222169727@4.34.125.155

== Last Updated ==

$Id$