#summary July 16, 2014 Conference Call

=   July 16, 2014 Conference Call 3:00PM GMT/11:00AM EDT/8:00AM PDT =

Attendees: 
Excused: Jason
  
== Agenda Topics ==
 * Developer Updates
   * Andy
   * Dan
   * Ivan
   * Aaron
   * Sowmya
   * Murilo
  * RC2 Status
  * LiveCD vs Full Install: What do we want to do?
  * Graphing bwctl and owamp from separate hosts on same plot
    * Issue 949
  * BWCTL options available through GUI
  * Testing strategy
  * pS Developer that can make CANS (September 15-17, 2014 in NYC)

== Notes ==
 * Developer Updates
   * Andy
    * Working on getting new code on ESnet
    * Working on setting up test host for dual-hosts
   * Aaron
    * Released new version of toolkit rpm that removes JOwping
    * Been playing with revisor to build full install. Created wiki page.
    * Will send something to list on full install soon
   * Brian
    * Spoke with NSRC, interested in perfSONAR training in Africa. Very interested in Ubuntu/Debian.
   * Murilo
    * We might be able to help with Debian. 
    * Working on MA. Working with Andy on MA verification. 
   * Sowmya
    * Added GEANT sLS to global list of files
    * Worked on debugging RNP sLS. Wrong version of sLS got restarted. 
    * Auto-detection of lat/long
   * Dan
    * Testing RC and had question on iperf output
    * Has two hosts for RC testing. Purchase of hardware went through.
    * Would it be useful to have test between IU and ESnet hosts?
   * Michael
    * Working on showing and hiding charts. retransmits have been off by default.
    * Brian: Retransmits need the 1 second intervals.
    * Will commit after this meeting
   * Roland
    * Presented roadmap, and was well-received. Also got question on Debian support. Will ask Antoine if they are interested.
    * At GEANT meeting, strong desire for unified implementation and a few feature requests
   * Ivan
    * Tested OWAMP MP and ready
  * RC2 Status
   * 
  * Meeting in Indy
   * Tentatively set meeting Thursday Oct 30th at Tech Exchange. 
  * LiveCD vs Full Install: What do we want to do?
   * Cost/benefit is clear. Brian will talk to ESnet management
   * Roland pointed out useful for marketing. Maybe do a VM image instead?
  * Graphing bwctl and owamp from separate hosts on same plot
   * Mesh config is probably easier, can leverage site and host objects, user has to specify
   * Toolkit is trickier because not explicit what is paired together
   * Decided to continue next week
  * BWCTL options available through GUI
    * Decided to continue next week
== Future Agenda Topics ==

== Actions  ==

== Where ==
ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS: 00113498555555
 * Direct Dial: mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-423-9220 then 8555555# at the prompt.

The free Cisco Jabber desktop video conferencing service also works with the ESnet ECS service. 
Just register and download the client from http://ciscojabbervideo.com, and connect using the meeting ID:  8555555@es.net

== Last Updated ==

$Id$