#summary April 21, 2014 Conference Call

=   April 21, 2014 Conference Call 1:00 p.m. EST =

Attendees: Andy, Jason, Michael, Dan, Brian

== Agenda/Minutes ==

TBD
  
== Follow-up on Actions  ==

TBD

== Agenda Topics ==
 * Developer Updates
   * Andy
   * Aaron
   * Sowmya
   * Dan
   * Michael
   * Brian
   * Jason
 * /boot filling up with kernels.  Anything we can do?
   * Reported from various users, appears to be related to defaults for netinstall (that we can't change?)
   * Can we use an existing disk partition monitor, have it send mail?  Can we automatically remove old kernels in a non-destructive way?  Can we resize or merge the partition?


== Notes ==
 * Developer Updates
   * Andy
    * Wrote docs for esmond
    * Met with RNP, they are evaluating esmond for their uses
   * Michael
    * Worked on lost of issues, fixing NaN issue with bwctl limits
    * Looking at error vs warning in GUI
   * Dan
    * Shoring up error message with OWAMP failing when NTP really far off
    * Looking at graphs next
    * Brian: It would be nice to collect ntp clock drift. Need aaron, might be a cacti plugin that's easy to install. 
   * Jason
    * Waiting for go ahead on new web space
    * Giving talk later this week, looking at a few issues
   * Brian
    * Bruce patched iperf3 with slightly different timing
 * /boot filling up with kernels.  Anything we can do?
   * Many things to look at. Not sure we want automated script.
   * Maybe look at tools to send emails about disk
   * Jason creating an issue

== Future Agenda Topics ==

TBD
   
== Actions  ==
 
TBD 

== Where ==
ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS: 00113498555555
 * Direct Dial: mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-423-9220 then 8555555# at the prompt.

The free Cisco Jabber desktop video conferencing service also works with the ESnet ECS service. 
Just register and download the client from http://ciscojabbervideo.com, and connect using the meeting ID:  8555555@es.net

== Last Updated ==

$Id$