#summary Feb 10, 2014 Conference Call

=   Feb 10, 2014 Conference Call 1:00 p.m. EST =

== Agenda/Minutes ==

 * Attendees: Jason, Andy, Sowmya, Warren, Dan, Michael
  
== Follow-up on Actions  ==

TBD

== Agenda Topics ==
 * Developer Updates
   * Andy
   * Aaron
   * Sowmya
   * Brian
   * Jason
   * Eric
 * Git Conversion
 * Annotations to OWAMP graphs, when BWCTL was running and could have self inflicted loss
 * proposed email list consolidation. Any comments/disagreements?

{{{
Merge these 2:
  https://lists.internet2.edu/sympa/subscribe/i2-perfsonar
  https://lists.internet2.edu/sympa/subscribe/perfsonar-dev
 to perfsonar-dev

Merge these 3:
  https://lists.internet2.edu/sympa/subscribe/perfsonar-user
  https://lists.internet2.edu/sympa/subscribe/perfsonar-ps-users
  https://lists.internet2.edu/sympa/subscribe/performance-node-users
to perfsonar-user

Merge these 3:
  https://lists.internet2.edu/sympa/subscribe/perfsonar-ps-announce
  https://lists.internet2.edu/sympa/subscribe/perfsonar-announce
  https://lists.internet2.edu/sympa/subscribe/performance-node-announce
 to perfsonar-announce

and make the old names aliases to the new name. These would all be open lists.

We should maybe also maybe have a closed 'core developer' list with just folks with commit rights to the repo?

}}}


== Notes ==
 * Developer Updates
   * Andy
    * 3.3.2 release. fixed issue with mirror list
    * Worked on MA. Worked with Monte on MA rpm. Issues with python version on CentOS.
   * Sowmya
    * Fixed bug with owamp plotting, in 3.3.2 repo
   * Jason
    * Going to clean-up wiki
    * Waiting on I2's answers for web site
    * testing bwctl and kernel build
   * Warren
    * Nothing to report
   * Dan
    * NDT Flash client not working
   * Michael
    * Tested installing NetInstall. Lots of old docs made it tricky
   * Aaron
    * Found issue with web100 and sysctl causing the system to crash
    * New version of BWCTL out. Hopefully do final release at the end of week. 
 * Git Conversion
  * Had serious merging issues last week due to the way svn handle's tree conflicts
  * Suggest move to git on Google Code
  * Action: Aaron will look at moving to git 
  * Action: After migration create the wiki where various repos exist
  * Will also need to update links to anonsvn
 * Annotations to OWAMP graphs, when BWCTL was running and could have self inflicted loss
  * Want to mark when bwctl run. Lots of moving parts.
  * Dan: Can mark user annotations? Action: Add issue
 * proposed email list consolidation. Any comments/disagreements?
  * Jason: Would like a tighter list for perfsonar-dev
  * Jason: What about bwctl, owamp and NDT?
  * Aaron: Can't get rid of NDT, but maybe owamp and bwctl
  * Dan: From new user perspective 
  * Jason and Andy both think we can get rid of bwctl and owamp lists since same people
  * Jason thinks we should not just auto-add from previous development lists. Reset and let people re-join. Maybe rename to perfsonar-development or something so its completely new. 
  
== Future Agenda Topics ==

TBD
   
== Actions  ==
 
TBD 

== Where ==
ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS: 00113498555555
 * Direct Dial: mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-423-9220 then 8555555# at the prompt.

The free Cisco Jabber desktop video conferencing service also works with the ESnet ECS service. 
Just register and download the client from http://ciscojabbervideo.com, and connect using the meeting ID:  8555555@es.net

== Last Updated ==

$Id$