#summary March 10, 2014 Conference Call

=   March 10, 2014 Conference Call 1:00 p.m. EST =

Attendees: Andy, Jason, Dan, Ben, Aaron, Eric

== Agenda/Minutes ==

TBD
  
== Follow-up on Actions  ==

TBD

== Agenda Topics ==
 * Developer Updates
   * Andy
   * Aaron
   * Sowmya
   * Brian
   * Jason
   * Eric
 * EOL for pSPT 3.2.x and creation of a valut
 * Research Technology Transfer/Incubation Process
   * Globus: http://dev.globus.org/wiki/Incubator/Incubator_Process
   * Draft being circulated: https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B5uJA6NtbwMLdkpORWlmTWNNaTA/edit?usp=sharing

== Notes ==
 * Nagios checks
  * Ben Nelson from IU joined and discussed current use of Nagios checks.
  * Noted that seeing a lot of timeouts with Nagios.
  * Andy noted new MA should be ready next month, that should help
  * Could also try maddash, it likely throttles things better for PS then Nagios
  * Ben noted will try MA when its ready and will keep using MySQL backdoor for current stuff
 * Developer Updates
   * Andy
    * Vacation last week
    * Worked on esmond. Getting close, just looking at authentication options. All writes, summarizations and queries should be working.
   * Aaron
    * Paternity leave last 2 weeks
    * Fixed typo in Level 2 bundle
    * Fixed NDT code
   * Dan
    * Worked through GeiIP issues on GUIs
    * Also worked through google API issue in graphs
    * 3.4 testing
   * Brian
    * Minor bug fix for iperf3 coming out in the next couple days
   * Jason
    * Cleaning-up mesh
    * OIN workshop next week
   * Eric
    * Nothing else to update
 * EOL for pSPT 3.2.x and creation of a vault
  * ACTION: Move them to separate value. Aaron will let us know location. 
 * Research Technology Transfer/Incubation Process
  * Reviewed documents. Looks pretty good. next step to hand to steering group.
 * OSG Test Infrastructure
  * OSG has a full Koji setup where we could do some testing
  * They will carve out a section for us to test
  * May be interested in a meta-package that does not require an ISO
  * Also would be interested in non-web100 version w/o NDT and NPAD
    * It would be another version to test is a drawback
    * Group needs to think about this more
    
== Future Agenda Topics ==

TBD
   
== Actions  ==
 
TBD 

== Where ==
ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS: 00113498555555
 * Direct Dial: mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-423-9220 then 8555555# at the prompt.

The free Cisco Jabber desktop video conferencing service also works with the ESnet ECS service. 
Just register and download the client from http://ciscojabbervideo.com, and connect using the meeting ID:  8555555@es.net

== Last Updated ==

$Id$