#summary July 30, 2014 Conference Call

=   July 30, 2014 Conference Call 3:00PM GMT/11:00AM EDT/8:00AM PDT =

 * Attendees: Brian, Ivan, Aaron, Dan, Michael, Sowmya, Murilo, Eric, Fausto, Rade, Stefan
 * Excused: Jason

== Agenda Topics ==

 * Developer Updates
  * Andy
  * Ivan
  * Roland
  * Jason
  * Aaron
  * Brian
  * Sowmya
  * Michael
  * Murilo
 * TBD
 
== Notes ==
 * Developer Updates
  * Jason (Excused)
   * At a meeting today, continuing to work on pS Web things
  * Andy
   * New kernel available for testing
   * Working on some test hosts. Passed a few graph issues to Dan
  * Brian
   * Andrew Sides has an updated interface
   * Tech Exchange reg open. Dev meeting on thursday
  * Ivan
   * No updates
  * Antoine
   * No updates. Been on holiday
  * Aaron
   * New iperf3 and bwctl
  * Dan
   * Cleaning up the graphs. Better error handling
   * Working on multiple source and dest pairings. Will commit after the call.
  * Michael
   * Working on dynamic axes on graphs
  * Sowmya
   * Working on sLS in South Africa
  * Murilo
   * No updates. Welcome to Fausto!
  * Rade
   * First meeting. Welcome to Rade and Stefan!
 * Action: Everyone check your 3.4 issues. We will plan to look at them late next week. Hopefully do RC2 by end of month.
 
== Future Agenda Topics ==

== Actions  ==

== Where ==
ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS: 00113498555555
 * Direct Dial: mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-423-9220 then 8555555# at the prompt.

The free Cisco Jabber desktop video conferencing service also works with the ESnet ECS service. 
Just register and download the client from http://ciscojabbervideo.com, and connect using the meeting ID:  8555555@es.net

== Last Updated ==

$Id$