#summary June 11, 2014 Conference Call

=   June 11, 2014 Conference Call 3:00PM GMT/11:00AM EDT/8:00AM PDT =

Attendees: Brian, Roland, Michael, Dan, Jason, Sowmya,Aaron
  
== Agenda Topics ==
  * Developer Updates
   * Andy
   * Aaron
   * Sowmya
   * Brian
   * Dan
   * Michael
   * Roland 
   * Ivan
   * Antoine
  * sLS GUI: Displaying Multiple Interfaces

== Notes ==
 * Developer Updates
   * Andy
    * Fixed bug with MA reporting strange throughput results
    * Built new LiveCD/USB
   * Brian
    * new iperf3 release soon that will send server stats back
   * Roland
    * Getting up to speed on git repo
    * Working on a few code fixes for oppd
   * Michael
    * Working on the charts pulling in LS info
    * Action: Andy to make sure test hosts are registered in LS
   * Dan
    * Created issues related to IU large scale deployments
    * Working on getting an IU testbed for pS and automated build environment. Orders placed for hardware. 
    * Finishing up integrating the log analysis and final codes
   * Jason
    * Starting to work on perfsonar website
  * Antoine
   * Deployed simple lookup service. Ready to be tested.
  * Sowmya
   * Testing geant server this week
   * Making some changes to sLS perl client
   * Looking at ps-west. Related to pub/sub with ANTG
  * Aaron
   * Fixed a few issues assigned last week
   * Released new OWAMP, which revealed new bug. Timeout of control connections. Released fix today. 
   * Modified BWCTL to use server side information.
   * Updated regular testing config to do owp test ports  
 * sLS GUI: Displaying Multiple Interfaces
  * Currently can edit ls reg by hand to map interfaces to tests
  * Decided mostly a display issue. Need to document how to change easily.
 * Next Week: Review remaining 3.4 issues, hopefully start internal testing of full Toolkit

== Future Agenda Topics ==

== Actions  ==

== Where ==
ESnet conference bridge:
 * GDS: 00113498555555
 * Direct Dial: mcu1.es.net then down-arrow to meeting 555555 (or if your first, create it...)
 * phone: 1-510-423-9220 then 8555555# at the prompt.

The free Cisco Jabber desktop video conferencing service also works with the ESnet ECS service. 
Just register and download the client from http://ciscojabbervideo.com, and connect using the meeting ID:  8555555@es.net

== Last Updated ==

$Id$