#summary February 5, 2015 pS Doc Conference Call

=  February 5 2015 pS Doc Conference Call, 12pm EST =

== Attendees ==

{{{
	Trupti (GEANT)
	Jason (ESnet)
	John (Internet2)
	Brian (ESnet)
	Eric (Internet2)
	Jen (Indiana)
}}}

== Agenda Topics ==

{{{
	0) Agenda Bash
	1) Update on upcoming training sessions. (Even very tentative).
	2) Update on development of training materials (roadmap).
	3) Feedback from trainers on tools. (Any feature requests from recent training sessions?)
	3) Strategic discussion on where we want to target training.
}}}

== Notes ==

{{{
	Who runs these meetings? TBD.  Eric will today, maybe jason later

		Won't be an hour, won't be all the time

		Purpose - talk about training events, so we can coordinate.  Talk about materials, so we can share

	Preliminary comments:

		Materials will live online: http://www.perfsonar.net/about/training-materials/

		Existing set of training materials finished early Jan that included:

			Basic to intermediate levels of instruction (hands on expected) in how to get things running

			Use cases

			regional collaboration
		
			maddash

		Why aren't these up there now?  Two reasons:

			1) need to make a content neutral (e.g. no event metadata) versions that incorporate some of the changes.  Consider these 'living' documents

			2) need to carve out an area for past event materials (box/google folder?  just static links?  not sure yet)

				After each event, the static (dead) documents life here until time stops

		'Hiding' material vs deleting it

			Some discussion on if events just take the basic set of slides - and then 'hide' things that are not needed.  

			Some concern about if that would cause confusion.  Will research it.  

	Lets talk events:

		Feb 26/27, Atlanta GA, Southern Partnership in Advanced Networking Workshop 1: South Carolina and Georgia (Clemson CC-NIE)

			John and Jason attending - will be using existing materials (beginner audience) but shortened to fit 4 hrs

		Mar 18/18, Pittsburg PA, OIN

			Jason and others

			OIN likes using 'OIN' branded materials.  There are two ways we can address this:

				1) make it so the conversion from pS to OIN is easy (not hard in PPT)

				2) Get permission to just use perfSONAR branded materials from the overlords

		Mar 24 ESCC, Berkeley CA

			Brian will be talking about perfSONAR security only

		May 26/27/28, Kansas City MO, OIN

			Jason and others

		GLIF?  Doesn't make much sense

		I2GS?  Also hard to do this one due to the length of the event and not the right crowd

		TERRENA?  Trupti didn't know what was planned, but can ask.
		
		NSRC Events (summer)

			Kenya

			Phillipines

		APAN (summer)

			John was approached.  No details yet

		Tech X - If there is a tutorials track? Eric will ask 

		BTR Events

			John will send what he has planned

		SC15 - want to avoid

	Calendar?
		Want to be careful with this - we need a public/private view

			Public - for events that are confirmed

			Private - for things that are not confirmed and/or closed off (OINs)

		Jason envisions a google calander:

			Integrate with the web site - we are all owners

			We can add things as we need to, and make them 'private' so that the public view doesn't reveal the info

		John will investigate

	Topics that need materials still

		NAGIOS (advanced and basic)

			Need to also generate documentation for pS project as a part of this

		Configuration managers (CFEngine, Puppet, etc)

			Work with IU folks that are doing this for pS

		perfSONAR-UI

			EU side of house needs to work on this one

		pS for different actors

			viewpoint of a CIO, commercial entity, etc..  Talk about ROIs and all that other stuff that these parties care about.  

	Timeline doc

		Needs to be revised to add new people

		Move the priority of actors things (immediate use)

		assign people to other tasks

		slip things in march/feb to later (busy couple of months)

	Other things learned from previous 2 events:

		Timing and pacing need to be worked on (especially for those that are not familiar)

			add in bumpers to the slides to pause the action 

		Notes for each slide - since not everyone is Jason

		Each presenter needs access to a 'live' machine to do demos.  IU people can access IU machines, ditto for ESnet.  Internet2 folks don't have access to observatory anymore.  John needs to find a host he can log into to do demos.  

	Feedback from attendees

		How do we get feedback to the project?

		Jason has taken notes, then transcribes them and sends to dev list (Release manager can yay/nay them)

		We need a permanent survey mechaism - send to group immediately after each event and poke them once or twice for answers

			Survey monkey?  IU/Internet2 have accounts - ESnet doesn't

			Google docs are easy to manage too and may be prefered

		John to investigate - then we can make general questions as a group

	Jason @ Quilt

		not a perfsonar talk - more about engagement

		'what about setting up dashboards'

			it will be mentioned, its not the focus though

			not the right crowd to talk policy - that comes later
}}}

== Actions  ==

{{{
	Jason to see how to handle OIN vs. pS materials

	Eric to find out if there is a tutorial track at tech x

	Jason to experiment with slide hiding and PDF output

	Trupti to ask Roland/Domenico about TERRENA activities

	John to send BTR events that are planned

	John to investigate a google calendar for tracking

	Jason to update timeline document

	Jason to talk with Andy about NAGIOS documentation

	Jason to talk with configuration group about documentation

	John to get access to a perfSONAR node from Internet2 so he can do demos

	John to investigate survey monkey

	Jason to think about a policy document that goes with the responsibilities of running a dashboard
}}}

== Where ==

Join from PC, Mac, iOS or Android: https://ESnet.zoom.us/j/465462292
 
Or join by phone: 

    +1 (415) 762-9988 or +1 (646) 568-7788 US Toll
    Meeting ID: 465 462 292 
    International numbers available: https://ESnet.zoom.us/zoomconference 

Or join from a H.323/SIP room system: 

    Dial: 162.255.36.11 (US East) or 162.255.37.11 (US West) 
    Meeting ID: 465 462 292 

== Last Updated ==

$Id$