#summary March 5, 2015 Conference Call

=  March 5, 2015 Conference Call 4:00PM GMT/11:00AM EST/8:00AM PST/5:00PM CET =

 * Attendees: Andy, Brian, Dan, Michael, Soraya,
 * Apologies: Jason (on a plane), Szymon

== Agenda Topics ==
 * Project Planning 
  * Smartsheet: https://app.smartsheet.com/b/home?lx=KcuwC5QaC5XMBGBsBD6dqw
 * 3.4.2
 * New UI
 * Test mesh


== Notes ==
 * Project Planning 
  * Smartsheet: https://app.smartsheet.com/b/home?lx=KcuwC5QaC5XMBGBsBD6dqw
  * Central Management
   * starting up next week. End date has not changed yet. There are risks with the GUI and we have started using buffer time.
  * Auto Config
   * Hopefully finishing up next week
  * BWCTL 
   * Pushing back alpha a few days
  * Debian
   * Released some test packages.
  * LS Scalability
   * Working on transitioning cache to production
  * Build
   * Have some hardware commitments, Dan setup mesh
   * Ivan has some questions about restarts
  * GUI
   * Mock-up sent
  *  PS UI
   * Will update Rade's contact info
  * $100 nodes
   * Progressing
  * Bundling
   * on track
 * 3.4.2
  * Debugging issue with regular testing. Hopeful getting close to a solution. May be related to owamp restarts
 * Full DVD still giving problems
 * New UI
   * Range of topics covered from placement of services to how we do logins. 
   * Also some notes about how to better add some traceroute tools. 

== Future Agenda Topics ==

== Actions  ==

== Where ==
Please click this URL to start or join. https://ESNet.zoom.us/j/222169727 
  
Join from a dial-in phone: 
    Dial: +1 (415) 762-9988 or +1 (646) 568-7788
    Meeting ID: 222 169 727 
    International numbers available: https://ESNet.zoom.us/zoomconference 

Join from a H.323/SIP room system: 

    Dial: 4.34.125.155 (US East) or 4.35.64.154 (US West) 
    Meeting ID: 222 169 727 

For example: 222169727@4.34.125.155

== Last Updated ==

$Id$