#summary February 12, 2015 Conference Call

=  February 12, 2015 Conference Call 4:00PM GMT/11:00AM EST/8:00AM PST/5:00PM CET =

 * Attendees: Brian, Sowmya, Roland, Hakan, Eric, Luke, Dan, Michael, Andy, Soraya, Ivan, Valentin
 * Apologies: Jason (no updates to report, FWIW), Szymon, Rade (nothing new), Antoine

== Agenda Topics ==
 * Project Planning 
 * 3.4.2
 * VM Discussion
 * Small Node Poll results
== Notes ==
 * Project Planning 
  * Auto config started and on track. 
  * BWCTL on track
  * MaDDash on track
   * Andy will add option to list other links in menu
  * Debian port - see antoine email
  * LS scalability
   * Sowmya ready for others to test, will send instructions
   * Eric looking at IU managed sLS and Singapore node
  * Build and Test system
   *  Toolkit now building, working on ISOs
   * Have test platform commitments, proceeding with next steps
  * New GUI
   * Usability person lined-up, will start working with them
  * $100 Nodes
   * Survey complete. Discussion later.
  * Bundling
   * Sowmya has iptables and sysctl package
 * 3.4.2
  * Aaron, Dan, Andy all looking at full install issues. Will skip for rc if not ready by Tuesday.
  * NTP servers is non-blocking issue
 * VM Discussion
  * Group agreed document a good start
 * Small Node Poll results
  * Many interesting results. People seem more interested in more slightly capable nodes. 
  
== Future Agenda Topics ==


== Actions  ==

== Where ==
Please click this URL to start or join. https://ESNet.zoom.us/j/222169727 
  
Join from a dial-in phone: 
    Dial: +1 (415) 762-9988 or +1 (646) 568-7788
    Meeting ID: 222 169 727 
    International numbers available: https://ESNet.zoom.us/zoomconference 

Join from a H.323/SIP room system: 

    Dial: 4.34.125.155 (US East) or 4.35.64.154 (US West) 
    Meeting ID: 222 169 727 

For example: 222169727@4.34.125.155

== Last Updated ==

$Id$