#summary February 19, 2015 pS Doc Conference Call

=  February 19 2015 pS Doc Conference Call, 12pm EST =

== Attendees ==

{{{
	Jason (ESnet)
	Hans (NSRC)
	John (Internet2)
	Dale (NSRC)
	Eric (Internet2)
	Brian (ESnet)
	Ben (GRNOC)
	Trupti (GEANT)
}}}

== Agenda Topics ==

{{{
	Review current web presence (https://www.perfsonar.net/about/training-materials/ - Jason)
	Review Roadmap (attached - Jason)
	Calendar Project (John)
	Additional Training Opportunities (All)
	AOB
}}}

== Notes ==

{{{
	Dale will be at APAN/APRICOT.  Talking about perfSONAR a little bit in some sessions.  

		John will talk about engineering and testbeds.  Meeting with SINET people.  

	Review current web presence (https://www.perfsonar.net/about/training-materials/)

		out there and live, Brian sent to community lists

		eric comments - characterizing the audience is good - we can do that in the future too

		brian - approachable overview?

			see the top of the page

		say something about the branding of the slides on the main page (e.g. not strip things)

			creative commons licence, etc. (title page of the presentations)

		creative commons adoption - run it by perfSONAR steering (don't involve legal) - https://creativecommons.org/licenses/

			managers make a recommendation to adopt CCL

	Review Roadmap (attached - Jason)

		Review of the current one
		
		get it posted to the web

			sub section of the current roadmap + link to the training area

		Eric: to dale - let us know if things are missing (Hervey being out has hampered things - but that will get back soon)

			Hans: bouncing around the idea of more analysis and understanding of the results (more theory than practice). People need to understand what they are seeing

			'being able to explain a graph' - do it as a video, etc.

		Eric: add a deck that wasn't presented, but available

			TODO on what we would like see happen in a region/campus/country 'aftermath'  

			review what is up there - there is something that is close.  

		surveys - are we doing anyting to measure the effects of a workshop?

			immediate + 6/months

	Calendar Project (John)

		John has a google calendar started (BtR site visits, things we talked about, OIN)

			in his personal GMail account

			people should send gmail accounts to john

			public/private events, etc

		can we embed that in the perfSONAR web site (CMS)

	Additional Training Opportunities (All)




		Feb 26/27, Atlanta GA, Southern Partnership in Advanced Networking Workshop 1: South Carolina and Georgia (Clemson CC-NIE)

			John and Jason attending - will be using existing materials (beginner audience) but shortened to fit 4 hrs

		KINBER Webinar (Mar 4) - Jason, will be more DMZ than perfSONAR

		GPN Webinar (Mar 13) - Jason, perfSONAR topics

		GEANT Events:

			GN3+ Symposium (March?)

				Roland - will use existing pS materials and maybe a demo

			STF (March?)

				Roland - will use existing pS materials and maybe a demo

			Trupti will send a report to the list after the events on feedback.  

		Mar 18/18, Pittsburg PA, OIN

			Jason and others

		Mar 24 ESCC, Berkeley CA

			Brian will be talking about perfSONAR security only

		May 26/27/28, Kansas City MO, OIN

			Jason and others

		TNC

			Talk accepted on converged perfSONAR.  

			Dale notes there are some extra slots at the event - working with organizers to do something on emerging regions

		Deep Dive (Santa Cruz) - details emerging (June)

			Jason + maybe John/Matt
		
		NSRC Events (summer)

			Kenya

			Phillipines

		APAN (summer)

			John was approached.  No details yet.

			Dale: malasya - MYREN - associated training NSRC/pS thing (not clear yet)

			challenging to do a '2 day' event at APAN.  Do want to consider leave behind though

			Try to get the barriers to upgrading” from the locals - not important, no resources, lazy, etc,

	AOB

		poll for next call - apan is the next week and march is challenging

		hervey will be back soon from recovery.  
}}}

== Actions  ==

{{{
	Jason to talk with Andy about NAGIOS documentation

	Jason to talk with configuration group about documentation

	John to get access to a perfSONAR node from Internet2 so he can do demos

	Jason to think about a policy document that goes with the responsibilities of running a dashboard


	Everyone to send John gmail identities for google calendar sharing

	Jason to find out about embedding a calendar in the CMS for perfSONAR

	Jason to update and post roadmap to web site with corrections from today

		Add in a ‘theory’ item

	Jason to create a generic survey in Google Docs for use at events as well as a general QA doc that can be used by presenters.  

	Brian and Eric to work on CC license adoption w/ perfSONAR Steering

	Jason to update doc page to have a disclaimer about branding.  

	Eric to review current regional slide deck to see if this fits the mark for his ‘aftermath’ thought. 

	NSRC & IU International to determine why some NRENs haven’t upgraded to 3.3 yet.  If there is something the project can do to change the language in our notices, we can do that.  

	All will self assign to the roadmap, or we will start assigning

	Jason will start to fill in ‘notes’ and pacing instructions for slides.  
}}}

== Where ==

Join from PC, Mac, iOS or Android: https://ESnet.zoom.us/j/465462292
 
Or join by phone: 

    +1 (415) 762-9988 or +1 (646) 568-7788 US Toll
    Meeting ID: 465 462 292 
    International numbers available: https://ESnet.zoom.us/zoomconference 

Or join from a H.323/SIP room system: 

    Dial: 162.255.36.11 (US East) or 162.255.37.11 (US West) 
    Meeting ID: 465 462 292 

== Last Updated ==

$Id$