#summary Standard Operating Procedures for Maintaining perfSONAR Global Infrastructure

*DRAFT*

= Introduction =

The perfSONAR Lookup service is a global distributed infrastructure. The Global Lookup
Services (GLS services) are important for the proper functioning of the entire infrastructure
and so there are expectations, policies & procedures that should be followed to maintain the
root of this tree.

= Expectations =
The perfSONAR collaboration expects domains hosting gLS services to meet a set of
minimal standards to include the service in the set of root gLS servers.

  * The gLS service is a production 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year service.  
  * The hardware supporting the service will be maintained in a production like manner.
  * Changes to the gLS infrastructure will be managed using light-weight change management procedures.
  * Servers that are not meeting expectations will be removed from the list of production gLS servers.

==  Hardware ==

  * The hardware supporting the gLS infrastructure should be modern server hardware with raid disks, UPS power, etc.
  * It should have robust network connectivity.

== Software ==

  * Changes to the gLS software on any particular server will be done in coordination with the other gLS operators.
  * Changes to the gLS software will go through the following process before being installed on a production gLS server:
    * Proposed change must be discussed on perfsonar-dev@perfsonar.net.
    * Code implementing the changes must be committed to the SVN repository
    * The changes must be reviewed by someone other than the author.
    * The new version must be tested by someone other than the author.
    * Changes must be deployed on 1 server at a time during a planned maintenance window.


== Monitoring ==

  * Domains providing the root functionality should have automated 7x24 monitoring of:
    * The hardware providing the service
    * The services being provided.
  * Domains providing root functionality should have procedures & infrastructure in place to respond to service failures within 4 normal business hours.


*Action Items*
  * Need to create a perfsonar-ops mailing list.


= Standard Operating Procedures =
  * Planned Maintenance
    * Send email to perfsonar-ops 2 business days in advance announcing the planned maintenance window, and describing the work to be done.
    * Send email to perfsonar-ops after the work is completed.
  * Unplanned Maintenance
    * Send email to perfsonar-ops when maintenance or issue is discovered.
    * Send email to perfsonar-ops after the work is completed.


  * Changes a gLS to the root hints file.
    * Decisions to add hosts to this file will be made by the perfSONAR Steering Committee.
    * Decisions to remove hosts from this file can be made by perfSONAR Steering Committee
    * Service Operators of existing gLS services can request temporary, or permanent removal of their hosts from the file.
 




*DRAFT*