= perfSONAR-PS Home =

== Overview ==

perfSONAR-PS is an effort to create a collection of easy to use and easy to 
install perfSONAR services. These services will be targeted directly at 
network administrators. The tools should be created using tools that most 
network administrators are comfortable working with. As such, the first 
services created from this project will be written in perl.

Anyone interested in working on this project should contact our mailing list.

== Meetings and Conference Calls ==

A listing of the nodes from all meetings and conference calls can be found in [Meetings].

== Current Work ==

Ongoing work can be viewed from our anonymous SVN repository: 
http://anonsvn.internet2.edu/svn/perfSONAR-PS. 

 * [API] documentation is now available. 
 * The [NPToolkit] is nearing the first official release, download yours today!.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/list Request new features] to the perfSONAR-PS framework.
 
== For developers ==

 * perfSONAR-PS is entering into a [pSPS20090327Release release phase].  
 * Take a [CodeTour tour] of the services, installation procedures, and source code.
 * Please adhere to the [CodeRules coding guidelines].

== Mailing Lists ==

|| *List* || *Audience* ||
|| https://mail.internet2.edu/wws/info/i2-perfsonar || perfSONAR-PS Developers Only ||
|| https://mail.internet2.edu/wws/info/perfsonar-dev || perfSONAR Developers (International) || 
|| https://mail.internet2.edu/wws/info/perfsonar-user || perfSONAR Users Group ||
|| https://mail.internet2.edu/wws/info/performance-node-users || Performance Node Users ||  
|| https://mail.internet2.edu/wws/info/performance-node-announce || Performance Node Announce (Low Volume) || 
|| https://mail.internet2.edu/wws/info/bwctl-users || BWCTL Users || 
|| https://mail.internet2.edu/wws/info/ndt-users || NDT Users || 
|| https://mail.internet2.edu/wws/info/owamp-users || OWAMP Users || 

== Last Updated ==

$Id$
