= Introduction =

The [http://www.nitrd.gov/subcommittee/lsn/jet/index.html  Joint Engineering Team (JET)] is coordinating
a perfSONAR Demonstration project.  The goal of this project is to better understand the
issues with deploying multi-domain network measurement services in US federal and research networks.
 
 
= Participants =

  * ESnet
  * Internet2
  * NOAA
  * NLR
  * UEN/Univ. of Utah/CHPC
  * NASA

= Contacts =

Joe Metzger
Jeff Boote
Colin Morgan
Grover Browning & Charles Kloote
Joe Breen
Andy Germain


= Goals = 

Some of the goals of this demonstration project are to understand the issues with:
  * Deploying open collaboration software in the different types of organizations.
  * The security issues related to allowing tests across domain boundaries.
  * The policy issues related to sharing/publishing network measurement results.

= Measurement Plan =

  * Each domain will deploy a small number of test points at locations of interest to the other parties.
  * Every domain will collect measurements between themselves and the other participants.
  * Every domain will publish the measurement results they collect.

Note that since every domain is scheduling tests to the other participants, there will actually 
be 2 sets of measurements between every pair, The primary difference is that each set is 
owned and managed by a different domain.

== Latency ==

  * Each test latency test system will be configured to run tests to all other latency testers.
  * The tests will use OWAMP.
  * Each test will be configured at a rate of 10 packets per second.
 
Note that the data set collected by the latency test systems primary value is as a 
measure of availability, as well as providing insight to queuing behaviour and path
changes. 


== Bandwidth ==

  * Each bandwidth tester will run a 30 second TCP test to all other testers once an hour.


== Test Systems ==

NOAA

  * nettest.boulder.noaa.gov  - 10GE attached bandwidth test system in Bolder
  * perfsonar-pri.gfdl.noaa.gov - 10GE attached bandwidth test system in Princeton
  * owamp-pri.gfdl.noaa.gov - 1GE attached latency test system in Princeton

Latency test systems will be identified and deployed.


Internet2
		
  * nms-rthr1.salt.net.internet2.edu - 1 GE Throughput in Salt Lake City
  * nms-rthr1.newy.net.internet2.edu - 1 GE throughput in New York

  * owamp.salt.net.internet2.edu - Latency in Salt Lake City
  * owamp.newy.net.internet2.edu - Latency in New York

ESnet

  * anl-pt1.es.net - 10GE attached bandwidth test system at Argonne in Chicago
  * nersc-pt1.es.net - 10GE attached bandwidth test system at NERSC

  * anl-owamp.es.net - GE attached latency test system at Argonne in Chicago
  * nersc-owamp.es.net - GE attached latency test system at NERSC


NLR

   * test-10ge.atla.nlrview.nlr.net - 10 GE Bandwidth
   * test-10ge.newy.nlrview.nlr.net - 10 GE Bandwidth
   * test-10ge.seat.nlrview.nlr.net   - 10 GE Bandwidth

UEN/Univ. of Utah
   * perfsonar-uen.chpc.utah.edu - 10 GE Bandwidth
   * bandwidth.chpc.utah.edu - 10 GE Bandwidth
   * latency.chpc.utah.edu - 1 GE Bandwidth
== Status ==

|| Domain || Latency Systems Deployed || Bandwidth Systems Deployed || Latency Tests Configured || Bandwidth Tests Configured ||
|| NOAA || Yes || Yes ||  || Partially ||
|| Internet2 || Yes || Yes || ||  ||
|| ESnet || Yes || Yes || No || Partially || 
|| NLR || Yes || Yes || || ||
|| UEN/Univ. of Utah || Yes || Yes || Partially || Partially ||
|| NASA ||  || Yes || || Partially ||



== Measurement Results ==

  * ESnet
     * https://stats1.es.net/cgi-bin/serviceTest.cgi?url=http://anl-pt1-mgt.es.net:8085/perfSONAR_PS/services/pSB&eventType=http://ggf.org/ns/nmwg/tools/iperf/2.0
     * https://stats1.es.net/cgi-bin/serviceTest.cgi?url=http://nersc-pt1-mgt.es.net:8085/perfSONAR_PS/services/pSB&eventType=http://ggf.org/ns/nmwg/tools/iperf/2.0
  * NOAA
    * http://perfsonar-pri.gfdl.noaa.gov/gui/perfAdmin/serviceTest.cgi?url=http://localhost:8085/perfSONAR_PS/services/pSB&eventType=http://ggf.org/ns/nmwg/tools/iperf/2.0
  * NASA
    * http://ensight.eos.nasa.gov/Organizations/JET/index.shtml