#summary perfSONAR-PS Lookup Service Information

<wiki:toc max_depth="6" />

== Introduction ==

The [http://www.internet2.edu/performance/pS-PS/ perfSONAR-PS] Lookup Service
(_*LS*_) addresses the always challenging problem of resource registration and
discovery for the [http://www.perfsonar.net/ perfSONAR] framework. Service
instances that manage datasets are only useful when they can be contacted by
consumers. Consumers can only function when there is data available. To manage
these problems in a dynamic environment such as perfSONAR, it is necessary to
register, maintain, and query for the services that may contain interesting
data.

The perfSONAR-PS LS relies on an XML database,
[http://www.oracle.com/technology/documentation/berkeley-db/xml/index.html Oracle DB XML],
to store service registration information in a native manner. Using the power
of the [http://www.w3.org/TR/xpath XPath] and
[http://www.w3.org/TR/xquery/ XQuery] standards it is then possible for client
applications and services alike to query for information in a uniform and
powerful manner. All perfSONAR services are capable of registering information
with an LS instantiation, thus deploying this service within your framework is
paramount. 

== Installation ==

There are several ways to install this service, the popular methods are listed
below.  Note that these are from the point of view of installing a particular
version - this may or may not be the most recent.  

=== Prerequisites ===

The LS is packaged as an [http://www.rpm.org/ RPM] - a binary installation
format that is geared towards use on Red Hat linux based systems.  Examples
include [http://fedoraproject.org/ Fedora],
[http://www.redhat.com/ Red Hat Enterprise Linux], [http://centos.org/ CentOS],
[http://www.whiteboxlinux.org/ White Box],
[https://www.scientificlinux.org/ Scientific Linux], and others.  

These Linux distributions normally rely on _Package Management_ tools to install
and maintain software.  Examples of these tools include
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Up2date up2Date], [http://yum.baseurl.org/ YUM],
and [http://apt-rpm.org/ APT-RPM].  [http://internet2.edu/ Internet2] has
created a repository to house the perfSONAR-PS software, related performance
tools, and hard to find prerequisites.  We encourage adopters of these tools to
install a simple RPM package that gives the necessary configuration information
for the YUM and APT-RPM tools.  

To install this RPM first import the signing key:

{{{
rpm --import http://software.internet2.edu/rpms/RPM-GPG-KEY-Internet2
}}}

Then install the RPM:

{{{
rpm -ivh http://software.internet2.edu/Internet2-repo-0.1-2.noarch.rpm
}}}

It is also recommended that an additional repository be installed for hard to 
find prerequisite software that may not be available in traditional repositories
used by the Linux distributions.  Two regarded repositories are:

 * http://dries.ulyssis.org/rpm/
 * http://dag.wieers.com/rpm/
 
Each site provides configuration instructions and packages similar to the
Internet2 repository.

==== Other Forms of Linux ====

If using a package management system is not an option, or if your system is not
RedHat based (e.g. Debian, Gentoo, etc.) it is still possible to install this
software and related requirements by hand.  Please see the
[LS#Tar_Package TarPackage] or [LS#Subversion Subversion] sections for more
details.  This tool uses the following Perl libraries, libraries, and external
tools to function:

 * Perl Libraries
   * Config::General
   * Cwd
   * Data::UUID
   * Data::Validate::IP
   * Digest::MD5
   * English
   * Error
   * Exporter
   * File::Basename
   * File::Temp
   * File::stat
   * Getopt::Long
   * HTTP::Daemon
   * Hash::Merge
   * IO::File
   * LWP::Simple
   * LWP::UserAgent
   * Log::Dispatch
   * Log::Dispatch::FileRotate
   * Log::Log4perl
   * Module::Load
   * Net::CIDR
   * Net::IPTrie
   * Net::IPv6Addr
   * Net::Ping
   * Params::Validate
   * Sleepycat::DbXml    
   * Sys::Hostname
   * Time::HiRes
   * XML::LibXML
 * Libraries
   * LibXML2
 * Tools
   * RRDTool

=== YUM ===

Like Apt, YUM installation also manages the task of finding dependencies.  The
following command is all that is needed:

{{{
yum install perl-perfSONAR_PS-LookupService
}}}

There may be several prerequisites to install depending on the age of your
system.  To ensure that all are found, please be sure to install one of the
alternative repositories above. 


=== APT-RPM === 

Installation through APT-RPM is easy, simply let the package manager do the work of
managing the dependencies:

{{{
apt-get update
apt-get install perl-perfSONAR_PS-LookupService-3.1-1.pSPS.noarch.rpm
}}}

There may be several prerequisites to install depending on the age of your
system.  To ensure that all are found, please be sure to install one of the
alternative repositories above.  

=== Standalone RPM ===

If you do not wish to install the Internet2 Repository package, you may simply
find the appropriate RPM for your architecture without using a package manger.
The first step is to install the signing key:

{{{
rpm --import http://software.internet2.edu/rpms/RPM-GPG-KEY-Internet2
}}}

Next download the service, for example if you are on an _*i386*_ architecture:

{{{
wget -c http://software.internet2.edu/rpms/i386/main/RPMS/perl-perfSONAR_PS-LookupService-3.1-1.pSPS.noarch.rpm
}}}
  
To install without package manager help:

{{{
rpm -ivh perl-perfSONAR_PS-LookupService-3.1-1.pSPS.noarch.rpm
}}}
  
Note that this RPM may need packages to install correctly: if they are not found
on your system manual download and install will be required.  An alternate
method is to still use a package manager in a _local_ way (YUM only):

{{{
yum localinstall perl-perfSONAR_PS-LookupService-3.1-1.pSPS.noarch.rpm
}}}

This will still search the available repositories for any necessary packages.

=== Tar Package ===

All RPM packages are also available in _source_ packages that may be installed
and used in the typical Unix/Linux fashion.  There are helper scripts included
that may be used to download the necessary prerequisite software packages:

{{{
wget -c http://software.internet2.edu/source/perl-perfSONAR_PS-LookupService-3.1-1.tar.gz
tar -zxfv perl-perfSONAR_PS-LookupService-3.1-1.tar.gz
make install
cd perl-perfSONAR_PS-LookupService-3.1-1/scripts
./install_dependencies.sh
./prepare_environment.sh
}}}

These two included scripts will configure the machine's users and startup
scripts as well as contact [http://search.cpan.org CPAN] for any necessary perl
libraries.  

In addition to perl requirements, there are other software requirements that
should be installed.  These are not controlled via the dependency scripts due to
differences in package management.  The tools are listed below:

 * Oracle DB XML
   * Source is available [http://download.oracle.com/berkeley-db/dbxml-2.3.11.tar.gz here]
   * Package management names:
     * Debian/Ubuntu: dbxml
     * RedHat Systems: dbxml
 * LibXML2
   * Package management names:
     * Debian/Ubuntu: libxml2, libxml2-dev, libxml2-utils
     * RedHat Systems: libxml2, libxml2-devel

=== Subversion ===

Software may be downloaded directly from our anonymous subversion server.  This
installation method allows for easy upgrades between versions and access to 
bugfixes immediately.  There are two ways to download from our server, one that
retrieves all software and another that retrieves only selective services.

To download the entire release:

{{{
svn checkout http://anonsvn.internet2.edu/svn/perfSONAR-PS/tags/RELEASE_3.1 perfSONAR-PS
}}}
  
The instructions are the same here as for the Tar package.  Note that
installation may require pre-requisite software.  Read the preceding sections
for necessary items and suggestions on how to install and configure them.  When
you wish to update the checkout (to retrieve new development or bugfixes):

{{{
cd perfSONAR-PS
svn update
}}}
  
If a single service is all that is required, a similar method is used but also
note that the service must have access to a "Shared" directory that contains
perfSONAR-PS libraries:

{{{
svn checkout http://anonsvn.internet2.edu/svn/perfSONAR-PS/tags/RELEASE_3.1/perfSONAR_PS-LookupService/
svn checkout http://anonsvn.internet2.edu/svn/perfSONAR-PS/tags/RELEASE_3.1/Shared
}}}

The instructions are also the same as above:

{{{
cd Shared
svn update
}}}

and

{{{
cd perfSONAR_PS-LookupService
svn update
}}}

== Configuration ==

The following sections detail the necessary configuration of this service.

=== Configuration File Format ===

{{{
<port 9995>
    <endpoint /perfSONAR_PS/services/hLS>
        <gls>
				                                # just an hLS ... (ORG, CITY, STATE, COUNTRY)
			root                            0
				                                # data TTL = 4 days
			ls_ttl                          5760
				                                # 180 minute (3hr) registaration window
			ls_registration_interval        180
				                                # 120 miute cleaning/summary window
			maintenance_interval	        120
				                                # Database options (only change path)
			metadata_db_file	            glsstore.dbxml
			metadata_summary_db_file	    glsstore-summary.dbxml
			metadata_db_name	            /var/lib/perfsonar/lookup_service/xmldb
				                                # Service options (please customize)
			service_accesspoint	            http://localhost:9995/perfSONAR_PS/services/hLS
			service_description             ORG Home Lookup Service (CITY, STATE, COUNTRY)
			service_name                    ORG Home Lookup Service
			service_type	                hLS
			
			summarization_granularity       3   #integer between [0;3]; 0 is coarser, 3 is finer (larger summarization)
            summarization_minMask          18   #minimum CIDR mask in summarization; for IPv4, 0 to 32
                                                #summarized IP addresses will not have a mask smaller than minMask

			
		</gls>
		disable	                            0
		module	                            perfSONAR_PS::Services::LS::gLS
	</endpoint>
</port>
	                                            # 180 minute (3hr) registaration window
ls_registration_interval	                180
disable_echo	                            0
	                                            # Root hints info, url + local copy location
root_hints_url	                            http://www.perfsonar.net/gls.root.hints
root_hints_file	                            /var/lib/perfsonar/lookup_service/hls.root.hints
	                                            # Daemon management, shouldn't need changing
reaper_interval	                            20
max_worker_lifetime	                        300
max_worker_processes	                    30
pid_dir                                     /var/run
pid_file	                                lookup_service.pid
}}}

=== Daemon Configuration File Options ===

There are several _*Global*_ configuration items, an explanation of each follows:


|| *Configuration Name* || *Required* || *Type* || *Description* ||
|| ls_registration_interval || No || Integer (Time in Minutes) || How often the service registers with a _*Global*_ Lookup Service ||
|| disable_echo || Yes || Boolean, 0 or 1 || Turn on or off the echo response (recommended to keep this on) ||
|| root_hints_url || Yes || String (URL) || Location of a root hints file (default is http://www.perfsonar.net/gls.root.hints) ||
|| root_hints_file || Yes || String (file path) || Location to locally store the root hints file ||
|| reaper_interval || Yes || Integer (Time in Seconds) || Internal daemon setting to manage processes ||
|| max_worker_lifetime || Yes || Integer (Time in Seconds) || Internal daemon setting to manage processes ||
|| max_worker_processes || Yes || Integer || Internal daemon setting to manage processes ||
|| pid_dir || Yes || String (file path) || Directory to store PID files ||
|| pid_file || Yes || String (file name) || Name of PID file for this service ||


There are several configuration items that are directly related to the service,
an explanation of each follows:


|| *Configuration Name* || *Required* || *Type* || *Description* ||
|| port || Yes || Integer || Port this service will listen on ||
|| endpoint || Yes || String (URL path) || Endpoint path this service will listen on ||
|| root || Yes || Boolean, 0 or 1 || Is this service a _*Global*_ Lookup Service (normally this is set to no)  ||
|| ls_ttl || Yes || Integer (Time in Minutes) || Length of time data can remain in the LS without being refreshed ||
|| ls_registration_interval || Yes || Integer (Time in Minutes) || How often the service registers with a _*Global*_ Lookup Service ||
|| maintenance_interval || Yes || Integer (Time in Minutes) || How often this service performs cleaning and summarization ||
|| metadata_db_name || Yes || String (file path) || Name of the directory that houses the database ||
|| metadata_db_file || Yes || String (file name) || File name of a database file ||
|| metadata_summary_db_file || Yes || String (file name) || File name of a database file ||
|| service_accesspoint || Yes || String (URL) || URL used to contact this service ||
|| service_description || Yes || String || Description of this service ||
|| service_name || Yes || String || Name of this service ||
|| service_type || Yes || String || Type of this service (normally hLS) ||
|| disable || No || Boolean, 0 or 1 || Is this service active or not (normally 1) ||
|| module || Yes || String (module name) || Module name that controls this service (normally will not change) ||


=== Logger Configuration Options ===

The following is an explanation of the logging file format.  


|| *Configuration Name* || *Suggested Value* || *Description* ||
|| log4perl.logger.perfSONAR_PS || INFO, A1 || Log level to use (DEBUG, INFO, CRITICAL, FATAL) and the name of the logger ||
|| log4perl.appender.A1 || Log::Dispatch::Screen, Log::Dispatch::Syslog, Log::Dispatch::!FileRotate || Where to direct logging messages ||
|| log4perl.appender.A1.facility || local5 || Syslog facility to handle log messages.  Use with the Syslog option ||
|| log4perl.appender.A1.filename || /var/log/perfsonar/lookup_service.log || Location of logging file.  Use with the !FileRotate option ||
|| log4perl.appender.A1.max || 5 || Maximum log files to maintain.  Use with the !FileRotate option ||
|| log4perl.appender.A1.size || 16777216 || Size of the logging file before rotation.  Use with the !FileRotate option ||
|| log4perl.appender.A1.mode || append || Append to a file instead of overwriting. ||
|| log4perl.appender.A1.layout || Log::Log4perl::Layout::!PatternLayout || Use a specific patter generator ||
|| log4perl.appender.A1.layout.!ConversionPattern || %d (%P) %p> %F{1}:%L %M - %m%n || Pattern for log files ||


=== Suggested Configuration Changes ===

The LS comes with a base configuration via the installation procedure.  This is
meant to allow for immediate testing as well as serve as a guide for customizing
the service.  

There are several files that may be adjusted manually to configure this service
for a specific use case:

==== Daemon Changes ====

Contains information that identifies the service uniquely and allows it to run
in a given environment.  There are several options that should be changed:  
   
 * _*service_accesspoint*_ - Change the _hostname_ from _*localhost*_
 * _*service_description*_ - Identifying information about the service
 * _*service_name*_ - Service Name (short)  

There are also several options that may be changed for a configuration:

 * _*port*_ - Port the service listens on
 * _*endpoint*_ - Endpoint to contact the service
 * _*ls_ttl*_ - How long data can remain before being cleaned Currently set to 5760 minutes (4 days)
 * _*ls_registration_interval*_ - How often to contact gLS, 180 minute (3hr)
 * _*maintenance_interval*_ - How often to summarize the internal data, currently 120 minutes (2 hours)
    
The rest of the items are normally not to be adjusted.
        
==== Logging Changes ====

Contains information related to logging, there are three modes:

 * _*Log::Dispatch::Screen*_ - Log messages to screen (useful for debugging)
 * _*Log::Dispatch::Syslog*_ - Log messages to syslog facility
 * _*Log::Dispatch::FileRotate*_ - Log messages to specified file

The rest of the items are normally not to be adjusted.
    
== Service Control ==

The service comes with init scripts that may be used to start and stop
operation:

{{{
/etc/init.d/lookup_service start
/etc/init.d/lookup_service stop
/etc/init.d/lookup_service restart
}}}

The service can also be run in a manual fashion (useful for debugging):

{{{
perl bin/daemon.pl --verbose --conf=etc/daemon.conf --logger=etc/daemon_logger.conf
}}}
  
Before doing this, be sure to [LS#Logging_Changes edit] the logging to enable
_Screen_ debugging.

== Service Validation ==

The service comes with a client application and several test messages that can
be used to test functionality.  There are many messages provided as examples, 
to test the service there are 2 that are recommended:

{{{
etc/requests/EchoRequest.xml
etc/requests/hLS/LSQueryRequest.xml
}}}

These four will test the major functions of this service. To test:

 # Ensure the service is started, it helps if you have configured logging to use the "Screen" so you may monitor the service's activities.
 # Run the client:
{{{  
  perl bin/client.pl URL FILENAME
}}}  
 # Compare the results of the test with the comments in each file.  Note there may be some differences (e.g. id values, key values).  
 # If everything looks OK, return logging to normal and restart service via the init system.  

== Service Maintenance ==

Subscribe to the user mailing lists if you are seeking help on some problem
related to this software.  Announcements regarding availability of new releases
will also be sent to these locations:


|| *List* || *URL* || *Audience* ||
|| perfSONAR Users Group || https://mail.internet2.edu/wws/info/perfsonar-user || perfSONAR Users Group ||
|| perfSONAR Announcements || https://mail.internet2.edu/wws/info/perfsonar-announce || perfSONAR Announce (Low Volume) ||
|| Performance Node Users || https://mail.internet2.edu/wws/info/performance-node-users || Performance Node Users ||
|| Performance Node Announcements || https://mail.internet2.edu/wws/info/performance-node-announce || Performance Node Announce (Low Volume) ||


Also if you are using package management software and have installed the
Internet2 software repository, a typical upgrade should download new releases:

{{{
yum update
}}}

or

{{{
apt-get dist-upgrade
}}}
  
Finally, check the following websites for news of software releases:

 * http://software.internet2.edu
 * http://www.internet2.edu/performance

== Last Updated ==

$Id: pSPS20090327Release.wiki 656 2009-04-01 11:28:58Z jwzurawski $
