#summary Meeting notes from 2014 developer meeting in Indianapolis after TechEx

{{{
Present:
Andy Lake
Sowmya Balasubramanian
Eric Boyd
Shawn McKee
John Hicks
Michael Johnson
David Ripley
Jen Schopf
Rade Martinovic
Takatoshi Ikeda
Luke Fowler
Dan Doyle
Antoine Delvaux
Roland Karch
Brian Tierney
Aaron Brown
Szymon Trocha
Domenico Vicinanza
Ivan Garnizov (via video)


Overall future strategic themes:
Increase usability
Increase impact
Improve project efficiency
Support for Advanced Networking (SDN, Network Virtualization, Dynamic Networks)
Small / cheap node support (from 1k to 100k nodes)
User interface refresh
Security assessment 


Lightning Talks


Andy - autoconfig
- Motivation is for large scale deployments (small nodes or otherwise) to reduce human driven configuration
- Possible use case not only “I want to test to a bunch of pre-existing things, but also want those things to test to me"
     - Security issue potentially?
- Big issue is AuthN and AuthZ
     - Who should be allowed to send data to central MA or make additions to mesh config?
     - Maybe simplest answer is IP based so particular subnets are allowed to auto register
     - Maybe solved just via external ACLs
     - Additions to lookup service to help identify


Aaron - bwctl rewrite issues/plans
- Limited protocol, limited support for supported tools, limited ability to make new clients
- Codebase is “problematic”, has since surpassed original design scope
- limits file not descriptive enough or flexible
- Most fundamental aspect is fixing protocol
- Potentially want to get away from C due to inherent complexity, minor concern over dependencies if moving to a higher language
- Need to consider legacy support, can’t just drop them arbitrarily
- How to differentiate old vs new, different ports? Something in protocol?
- Removal of “peer ports"
- Removal of NTP requirement, not necessary for throughput testing (but yes for others)


Sowmya - lookup service cache
- Problem right now is having to hit every lookup service to try and find the information
     - As number of lookup servers rises, overall performance drops as a result
- Proposed solution is to use cache
     - Cache subscribed to each lookup service so contains all information
     - Have a cache paired up with each lookup service to maintain geographic diversity
     - Caches readonly
- Information about cache included in lookup bootstrap file for finding where they are
- Concerns about scalability, if we go to 10x metadata and 10x nodes, will cache become too big?
     - Backend is built on mongodb, can be horizontally scaled without outward changes
- Suggestion for something like “recursive DNS” or “authoritative DNS” responses when hitting a lookup service instead of using separate caching mechanism
- Eric => wants some plan of what the goal for scaling is so that as new parts are developed they can be considered if it will be problematic


Dan - automation / release
- Start with unit tests, goal is to start small and grow instead of going 0-100 overnight
- Have a testlab that could run nightlies, maybe via something like Docker that could? 
     - Each organization donate a particular host to this global testlab, gain geographic diversity
- Schedule demo / tutorial over next few weeks to get everyone up to speed


Break


Shawn - PUNDIT
- New NSF project to use perfSONAR data to identify and localize network problems
     - Identify problems that I can do something about, and not require constantly observing dashboard
- Requires access to raw data from OWAMP
     - Would need bundling with existing pS tools to have access, default off for installations
     - OWAMP traditionally summarizes and deletes data, would need to be left to PUNDIT to delete
     - Only analyzes local data, reports data out to central PUNDIT server for mass analysis
- Active collaboration with paris-traceroute developers, including 6mos 1FTE of their developer time to help iron out initial issues
- Toolkit enhanced to support PUNDIT agent:
     - turning it on / off
     - support defining central PUNDIT server
     - replacing traceroute with paris-traceroute
- Funding for project for 2 years
- Still need to evaluate impact of running the agent on a toolkit host
- Open question - is there interest in having a lightweight bandwidth estimator (similar to pathchar)?
     - won’t try to fill the pipe
     - work above 1G
- Open issue - have ability to put data into Esmond or some other thing to integrate on charts if problems are discovered
- Migrate existing PUNDIT code to pS repo?
     - Not needed
- Desire to have this included in CI environment, built and tested along with other pS components


Fire Alarm / Lunch


Takatoshi - perfSONAR update in Asia
- Multiple networks in > 10 countries in Asia Pacific have deployed pS
- Proposal to SINET for using perfSONAR, concerns about revealing usage data
- Planning to update everything to 3.4 before SC2014


Dan - small node
- Jury still out on hardware, aim is to recommend / support 1-2 hardware instances
     - Mirabox likely candidate
- Likely Debian based due to ARM architecture, depends on how well Debian porting goes, may need to reevaluate


Antoine - Debian support
- Filesystem location changes
- Lots of dependency differences / non existing dependencies
- Naming differences
- Issues with building related to organization in repository


Brian - bundling
- Existing components broken out into several different bundles for various needs
- Come up with better naming, “perfSONAR Light” not very descriptive
- Andy thinks we likely need to break out more components, more rows in table ie more components in each package but same overall functionality
- Support both Debian/RH based systems for most things
     - 1 FTE of support? 0.5 today


Andy - Maddash
- Been a while since last refresh
- 1.1 
is UI cleanup (more check states, auto refresh, etc)
improved checks
ability to flag tests as “bad” like while a new disk is shipping out
     - flag as bad for set duration to avoid test getting permanently marked
- 2.0 
is more heavy duty UI refresh, redesign. Ability to create custom views, email notifications
     - utilize nagios for alerting / flapping / etc?
     - integration with existing nagios instances?
     - Eric => be able to see “partner” maddash instances from current maddash, see all adjacencies 
          - maybe store this information in the LS?
     - ability to more cleanly define multiple tests between same hosts


Rade - web interface GUI
- phase 1, convergence to pS_PS
     - desire to support graphs in this UI similar to those existing in dashboard
- SAML-based authN + authZ with eduGAIN -> browser based, non equivalent with eduROAM
- long term desire to merge both UIs into a single UI?
     - current UIs serve different use cases, one is larger view of network, one is more test centric
     - let both evolve and make their way towards convergence over time
- adaptive design
- How to put both interfaces into the lookup services, have both UIs cross link to eachother?


Break


Luke - web interface GUI updates
- desire to make UI not look like it’s from 2006
- identify use cases
     - person who wants to get at data (either on demand test or historical data)
     - person who configures the testing and parameters of machine
- moving desire from toolkit view to a more central meshconfig GUI
     - a different type of user trying to troubleshoot a problem and needs view of things like topology and lots of test results
     - mesh administrator user
- need to determine information
     - interview use cases from users that toolkit (or perfsonar in general) could be extended to help with
     - what sorts of technical skills do we need on team (graphic design, usability, etc)
- convergence of various UIs?
     - maybe not a useful idea, maddash on toolkit is different view of data, one more global one more local
     - different view for different user type
- bring visual consistency to various parts of the project
     - style guide?


Roland - documentation / website review
- consolidate micro sites, ie perfsonar.geant.net onto perfsonar.net instead
- not trying to get rid of micro sites necessarily, but push main data onto main site
- just utilize git to push documentation, script will pull it onto site within 15 minutes
     - could create “printable” documentation as well if desired, ie convert to PDF at runtime
- need for documentation / resources for specific communities?
     - unsure, possibly no
     - geant has been doing this historically
- performance related issues on documentation website
     - unresponsive script warnings due to large data
     - long-ish load times 
     - possibly related to running on a VM, to be investigated


An aside, should perfsonar be on facebook?
- Possibly useful due to someone else squatting on name
- Could be venue to make announcements, gain exposure
- Eric to investigate
- Andy created page


Aaron - NDT
- web10G is dead, Google has abandoned it in favor of something else. no certain future funding
     - no support for CentOS6 either
     - no idea what future of Google project is, what to do in meanwhile for NDT support     
- most users just want a “speedtest.net” style application without all the extra information, almost all less than 1G
- websockets seem safer / less likely to “go away” than java / flash
     - need to verify that websockets provide sufficient performance, might need to engage something else like a downloadable thing?
     - might need to sunset the project entirely if doesn’t work?
- likely take some flak for dropping web10G and/or reduction of prior NDT capabilities, need to address subject and deal with it


Eric - SDN
- not part of 3.5
- how to detect / measure / monitor when the network changes due to an event
- not a part of say the toolkit, make perfsonar more of a “library” that SDN applications can use when they do something to rapidly begin testing / measuring it
- need to write down some use cases, nebulously defined right now
     - is there any immediate impact on other projects we’re working on?
- towards end of 3.5, defined formal architecture for 3.6 roadmap


Luke - security
- none of us are security professionals
- various aspects to it:
     - security during development process
     - security of overall application
- offer from CTSC at IU to provide resources towards security analysis of pS
- Bill Nickless could also be a resource, has funding for this sort of thing, provided extensive feedback post Shellshock
- Shawn => we could provide some documentation on security aspects that team has already touched, provide launch point for others when reviewing / analyzing toolkit security
- Make port / vulnerability scanning part of the build automation process
    

Moved Developer call from Wedn 11am to Thurs 11am starting next week Thurs Nov 6

Assigning people to tasks 
- need to finalize at next Monday meeting between Luke, Brian, Eric
}}}