#summary Performance Node Release Management

<wiki:toc max_depth="6" />

== Introduction ==

The Performance Node release process is based heavily on the [ReleaseManagement generic] process.  This page recommends actions for release of the Performance Node only.  Content subject to change, so please review frequently.

== Roadmap ==

*LAST REVISED* <font color=red>June 5, 2009</font>

|| *Date* || *Milestone* ||
|| _17 July 09_ || [pSPSReleaseManagement#PN_Version_3.1 PN Version 3.1] ||
|| _Sept 09_ || [pSPSReleaseManagement#PN_Version_3.2 PN Version 3.2] ||

=== Performance Node ===

The following section details Performance Node specific enhancements for the future. 

==== PN Version 3.1 ====

  * Additions to pS-NPToolkit to enable Zero-Config mode
  * Use new versions of OWAMP/BWCTL and [pSPSReleaseManagement#pSPS_Version_3.1+ pSPS Version 3.1+]
  * Minimal-configuration start-up for diagnostic
  * All Administration via HTTP
  * Stability and performance enhancements
  * Community specific operations

==== PN Version 3.2 ====

  * Fedora-Live based to enable ISO building from rpms
  * Use [pSPSReleaseManagement#pSPS_Version_3.2 pSPS Version 3.2]

==== PN Version 4.0 ====

  * Allow an administrator to control a set of pS-performance nodes
  * Combination of yum repository and centralized configuration management tools

== Release Frequency ==

The Performance Node will be released on a bi-yearly basis to coincide with major activities of group members.  We are currently aiming to release:

 * Winter - January/February
 * Summer - June/July

These suggestions were based on group feedback from the [20081211Video December 11th Call], dates may be shifted based on priorities of the released software or group members.

=== v3.1 Release ===

For more information regarding this release, please see the information [PerformanceNode200907Release page].

=== v3.2 Release ===

TBD

== Release Process ==

The following are recommendations and deviations from the release process [ReleaseManagement#Release_Process recomendations].  These are not set in stone and may be relaxed depending on requirements for a given attempt.  Many are subject to availability of resources (time and manpower).  

=== Dependencies ===

The Performance Node has dependencies on the following software components in Internet2 and related partners:

 * _*perfSONAR-PS*_
   * Performance Node is designed to be released after perfSONAR-PS to use all new software versions.
 * _*OWAMP*_
   * Used by the perfSONAR-BUOY product.  In the event perfSONAR-BUOY is not being released this restraint can be relaxed. 
 * _*BWCTL*_
   * Used by the perfSONAR-BUOY product.  In the event perfSONAR-BUOY is not being released this restraint can be relaxed. 

Prior to a release cycle each of these should be weighed to gauge the importance they may hold in a new product vs. a previously tested release.

=== Revision Control ===

The Performance Node is currently built by Internet2 staff and does not have revision control for system functions.  All software (_perfSONAR-PS_, _BWCTL_, _OWAMP_) is alread controled via revision.

We expect a change in revision control strategy after the release of version 3.1

=== Schedule ===

See the original [ReleaseManagement#Schedule recommendations].  The schedule allows for a 3 week window, and may be relaxed or tightened on the discretion of the release team.

=== Documentation ===

TBD  

=== Testing ===

TBD

=== Code Review ===

TBD

=== Issue Tracker ===

TBD

== Released Product ==

TBD

== Last Updated ==

$Id$
