#summary Performance Toolkit Testing Checklist

<wiki:toc max_depth="6" />

== Introduction ==

This page contains a checklist of things to test, and questions to answer, before releasing a Performance Toolkit.  It can be submitted as a bug report in the event of difficulties

== Identifying Information ==
  * Tester (Name, Email):
  * Test Date (Date):
  * Version Tested (x.y.z):
  * Software Type (Live CD or Netinstall):
  * Machine Type (VM e.g. VMWare, 1G Memory or Server Make/Model, e.g. Dell 1950):
  * Architecture (x86 or x86_64):
  * Testing Type (Upgrade from a.b.c or Clean Install): 

== Download and Installation Questions ==
  * `_____` Did the provided MD5 Sum Verify against the download?
  * `_____` Were any errors seen during OS Boot/Installation?  

=== New Installation ===
  * `_____` Could you log in as root on the console with a blank password?
  * `_____` Did addressing the host (e.g. DHCP, Static) work as expected?

=== Upgraded Installation ===
  * `_____` Could you use existing accounts to access the machine?  
  * `_____` Were services you enabled (e.g. SSH) available after the upgrade?
  * `_____` Did host addressing work as expected (e.g. DHCP, Statuc, Hostname)?

== Upgrade Checklist ==

=== GUI/Display ===
  * `_____` Is the information under _*Host Status*_ (e.g. address, MTU, NTP) expected?  Note that NTP and Global registration may take several hours to complete.  
  * `_____` Are services running as expected?  Note that BWCTL and OWAMP will not start until NTP has stabilized.  Regular testing will not start unless it has been configured.  
  * `_____` Are the versions under _*Software Versions*_ consistent with the release?
  * `_____` Are the links under _*Performance Toolkit*_ consistent with the release?
  * `_____` Were there any rendering or formatting issues in your browser?  If so please list the browser type, version, and parent OS you are using.  

=== Databases ===
  * `_____` Is there an 'owamp' database?
  * `_____` Is there a 'bwctl' database?
  * `_____` Is there a 'pingerMA' database?
  * `_____` Is there a 'tracerouteMA' database?
  * `_____` Do the 'clean_pSB_db.pl' and 'check_pSB_db.pl' display help correctly?
  * `_____` Does the default db DB user get granted the correct permissions for DB access?

=== Administrative Information ===
  * `_____` Did the page ask you to authenticate before entering information?  Were you able to authenticate with root or other administrator credentials?
  * `_____` Are the labels, prompts, and pop-ups clear and informative?
  * `_____` Does the "Host Information" match what it was before the upgrade?
  * `_____` Is the list of communities the host participates in the same as before the upgrade?
  * `_____` Are the FAQ and documentation up-to-date?

=== NTP ===
  * `_____` Did the page ask you to authenticate before entering information?  Were you able to authenticate with root or other administrator credentials? Note your browser may cache this.  
  * `_____` Did your previous NTP configuration get preserved? This can be checked in the NTP Administrative GUI
  * `_____` Did any custom NTP servers you had added get saved?
  * `_____` Was NTP restarted after saving and does an 'ntpq -p' show the new hosts?

=== External BWCTL Limits ===
  * `_____` Did the page ask you to authenticate before entering information?  Were you able to authenticate with root or other administrator credentials?  Note your browser may cache this.  
  * `_____` Are the labels, prompts, and pop-ups clear and informative?
  * `_____` Do the bwctl limits for Unpriviledged Clients and Priviledges clients match what they were before the upgrade?
  * `_____` Does the list of users match what it was before the upgrade?
  * `_____` Does the list of networks match what it was before the upgrade?

=== External OWAMP Limits ===
  * `_____` Did the page ask you to authenticate before entering information?  Were you able to authenticate with root or other administrator credentials?  Note your browser may cache this.  
  * `_____` Are the labels, prompts, and pop-ups clear and informative?
  * `_____` Do the owamp limits for Unpriviledged Clients and Priviledges clients match what they were before the upgrade?
  * `_____` Does the list of users match what it was before the upgrade?
  * `_____` Does the list of networks match what it was before the upgrade?

=== Enabled Services ===
  * `_____` Did the page ask you to authenticate before entering information?  Were you able to authenticate with root or other administrator credentials?  Note your browser may cache this.  
  * `_____` Are the labels, prompts, and pop-ups clear and informative?
  * `_____` Does the list of which services are enabled match what it was before the upgrade?
  * `_____` Are the services listed as enabled actually running, and are those listed as disabled, not running? Can be checked via the "Services On This Node" link.
  * `_____` Are iptables and other services still running after the upgrade?
  * `_____` Is the Lookup Service registering the configured address?
  * `_____` Does the traceroute_scheduler restart after a configuration change?
  * `_____` Are Apache directory indexes disabled?
  * `_____` Is nscd enabled?

=== Scheduled Tests ===
  * `_____` Did the page ask you to authenticate before entering information?  Were you able to authenticate with root or other administrator credentials?  Note your browser may cache this.  
  * `_____` Are the labels, prompts, and pop-ups clear and informative?
  * `_____` Did all your previous tests get saved, and are they listed?
  * `_____` Do the tests in "Scheduled Tests" have all the hosts that were being tested to in the previous version?
  * `_____` Do the tests in "Scheduled Tests" have the same test parameters as in the previous version?
 
=== Cacti SNMP Monitoring ===
  * `_____` Did the page ask you to authenticate before entering information?  Were you able to authenticate with root or other administrator credentials?  Note your browser may cache this.  
  * `_____` Can you still use the cacti administration interface?
  * `_____` Are all the devices you configure previously still configured?
  * `_____` If you created accounts previously, can they still login?

=== Graphs ===
  * `_____` When a host is clicked, does a pop-up window appear with graphed data?  If not, check your browser’s pop-up settings.  
  * `_____` Are all throughput graphs from the previous version still visible via the the "Throughput" link on the sidebar?
  * `_____` Are all one-way delay graphs from the previous version still visible via the the "One-Way Delay" link on the sidebar?
  * `_____` Are all ping graphs from the previous version still visible via the the "Ping Delay" link on the sidebar?
  * `_____` Are all SNMP utilization graphs from the previous version still visible via the the "Utilization" link on the sidebar?
  * `_____` Are all Cacti graphs from the previous version still visible via the the "Cacti Graphs" link on the sidebar?
  * `_____` Are there any errors in the display or rendering (e.g. the graphing libraries) that you have noticed?

=== Traceroute Visualization ===
  * `_____` Does the page load as expected?
  * `_____` Can you select a source and destination using the drop down menus.  
  * `_____` Are there any errors that appear on load or on viewing of data?

== Testing Checklist ==

=== Administrative Information ===
  * `_____` Change the Organization Name, Host Location, Administrator Name and Administrator Email
  * `_____` Add a community via "Add New Community"
  * `_____` Add multiple "Popular Community" communities
  * `_____` Does the community just added get removed from the Popular Communities list?
  * `_____` Delete a community via the "Delete" link
  * `_____` Does the community get deleted from the list?
  * `_____` If you deleted a "Popular Community" from the communities list, does it get added back to the Popular Communities list
  * `_____` Save the administrative information
  * `_____` Did all the information get saved? Click Reset and make sure nothing changes
  * `_____` Check that the following services were restarted: PingER, SNMP MA, perfSONAR-BUOY Measurement Archive, Traceroute Measurement Archive, LS Registration Daemon
  * `_____` Check that NPAD's and NDT's webpages got updated:
  * `_____` NDT: `http://[host url]:7123`
  * `_____` NPAD: `http://[host url]:8000`
  * `_____` Check the contents of the hLS to make sure that the description information for services is updated.
  * `_____` You can use the following URL to check (*Please allow at least 10 minutes for service registration*): `http://dc211.internet2.edu/cgi-bin/pA/view.cgi?hls=http://[host_url]:9995/perfSONAR_PS/services/hLS`

=== Enabled Services ===
  * `_____` Select "Only Enable Bandwidth Services", it should enable NDT, NPAD, BWCTL, perfSONAR-BUOY Throughput Testing. It should disable owamp, perfSONAR-BUOY Latency Testing, PingER.
  * `_____` Select "Only Enabled Latency Services", it should enable owamp, perfSONAR-BUOY Latency Testing, PingER. It should disable NDT, NPAD, BWCTL, perfSONAR-BUOY Throughput Testing
  * `_____` Individually select and deselect components.
  * `_____` Click 'save', make sure that everything that should be enabled is started, and everything that should be disabled is stopped
  * `_____` After entering information, did the page save cleanly?
  * `_____` Did changes made to servers (e.g. starting stopping SSH as an example) have an immediate effect after saving?

=== Scheduled Tests ===
  * `_____` Are you able to add a new bwctl test and see results within the test interval?
  * `_____` Are you able to add a new owamp test and see results within a few minutes of adding it?
  * `_____` Are you able to add a new traceroute test and see results within the test interval?
  * `_____` Are you able to remove a bwctl test and see that it is no longer collecting new data?
  * `_____` Are you able to remove a owamp test and see that it is no longer collecting new data?
  * `_____` Are you able to remove a traceroute test and see that it is no longer collecting new data?
  * `_____` Are hostnames, IPv4 addresses, and IPv6 addresses displayed correctly?
  * `_____` After entering information, did the page save cleanly?

=== NTP ===
  * `_____` Select and deselect ntp servers. Click save and check that /etc/ntp.conf contains those servers and that ntpd has been restarted.
  * `_____` Add a new NTP Server using the "Add New NTP Server" button. Click save and check that /etc/ntp.conf contains the newly added server.
  * `_____` Try to re-add an existing server. Should fail.
  * `_____` Click reset and make sure that the NTP server you added still exists.
  * `_____` Click "Select Closest Servers". After it has finished, no more than 5 of the servers should be selected. If any servers cannot be contacted, they should be marked in red, and have a tooltip when you move your mouse over them. Click save, and verify that the /etc/ntp.conf contains the selected hosts.
  * `_____` After entering information, did the page save cleanly?

=== External BWCTL Limits ===
  * `_____` Edit the "Unpriviledged Clients" and make changes to the limits, hit save and see that /etc/bwctld/bwctld.limits has been updated, and that the "regular" group has the limits you specified.
  * `_____` Click "Add User", enter a user name, select a group, and set a password. Hit save and see that /etc/bwctld/bwctld.limits and /etc/bwctld/bwctld.keys have both been updated
  * `_____` Click "Add User" and try to re-enter the name above. You should receive an error message about the user already existing.
  * `_____` Click "Change Password", and try to change the user's password. Hit save, and check that /etc/bwctld/bwctld.keys has been updated
  * `_____` Click "Change Group", and try to change the user's group. Hit save, and check that /etc/bwctld/bwctld.limits has been updated
  * `_____` Click "Delete" to delete the user you added. Hit save, and check that /etc/bwctld/bwctld.limits and /etc/bwctld/bwctld.keys have been updated.
  * `_____` Click "Add Network", enter an IP address and netmask and then select a group. Hit save and see that /etc/bwctld/bwctld.limits has been updated
  * `_____` Click "Add Network" and try to re-enter the address and netmask above. You should receive an error message about the network already existing.
  * `_____` Click "Change Group", and try to change the networks's group. Hit save, and check that /etc/bwctld/bwctld.limits has been updated
  * `_____` Click "Delete" to delete the network you added. Hit save, and check that /etc/bwctld/bwctld.limits has been updated.
  * `_____` After entering information, did the page save cleanly?
  * `_____` Did the limits you set for either tool prevent access for a class you were trying to block or give enhanced abilities?

=== External OWAMP Limits ===
  * `_____` Edit the "Unpriviledged Clients" and make changes to the limits, hit save and see that /etc/owampd/owampd.limits has been updated, and that the "regular" group has the limits you specified.
  * `_____` Click "Add User", enter a user name, select a group, and set a password. Hit save and see that /etc/owampd/owampd.limits and /etc/owampd/owampd.pfs have both been updated
  * `_____` Click "Add User" and try to re-enter the name above. You should receive an error message about the user already existing.
  * `_____` Click "Change Password", and try to change the user's password. Hit save, and check that /etc/owampd/owampd.pfs has been updated
  * `_____` Click "Change Group", and try to change the user's group. Hit save, and check that /etc/owampd/owampd.limits has been updated
  * `_____` Click "Delete" to delete the user you added. Hit save, and check that /etc/owampd/owampd.limits and /etc/owampd/owampd.pfs have been updated.
  * `_____` Click "Add Network", enter an IP address and netmask and then select a group. Hit save and see that /etc/owampd/owampd.limits has been updated
  * `_____` Click "Add Network" and try to re-enter the address and netmask above. You should receive an error message about the network already existing.
  * `_____` Click "Change Group", and try to change the networks's group. Hit save, and check that /etc/owampd/owampd.limits has been updated
  * `_____` Click "Delete" to delete the network you added. Hit save, and check that /etc/owampd/owampd.limits has been updated.
  * `_____` After entering information, did the page save cleanly?
  * `_____` Did the limits you set for either tool prevent access for a class you were trying to block or give enhanced abilities?

=== Reverse Clients (traceroute, tracepath, ping) ===
  * `_____` Do the web pages load as expected?
  * `_____` Are you able to perform tests to remote and local targets?
  * `_____` Were any errors observed in either step?

=== NDT * NPAD === 
  * `_____` Does the system have a functional Web100 kernel (verify with ‘uname –a’)
  * `_____` Do the web pages load?
  * `_____` Can you complete an NDT test (note that your browser will need Java installed)
  * `_____` Are the results consistent (e.g. another subjective test – use your knowledge of the local network). 
  * `_____` Can you complete an NPAD test (note that your browser will need Java installed)
  * `_____` Are the results consistent (e.g. another subjective test – use your knowledge of the local network). 

=== Command Line Tools === 
  * `_____` Does OWAMP on the command line to a server (use one at Internet2 or ESnet) function as expected?
  * `_____` Does BWCTL on the command line to a server (use one at Internet2 or ESnet) function as expected?  Please try using –T options for iperf, nuttcp, and iperf3.  
  * `_____` Does traceroute on the command line to a server (use one at Internet2 or ESnet) function as expected?
  * `_____` Does tracepath on the command line to a server (use one at Internet2 or ESnet) function as expected?
  * `_____` Does ping on the command line to a server (use one at Internet2 or ESnet) function as expected?

== Last Updated ==

$Id$