#summary pSPT 3.1.3 Release

<wiki:toc max_depth="6" />

== Introduction ==

This page outlines details regarding the release of pSPT 3.1.3.  The process started in March 2010 and is scheduled to complete on April 23rd, 2010.  

== Release Team ==

 * Jason - Lead, Documentation, Testing
 * Aaron - Development, Documentation, Testing
 * Andy - Development, Documentation, Testing
 * Jeff - Documentation, Testing
 * Brian - Testing
 * Maxim - Testing
 * Joe - Testing
 * Ezra - Testing
 * Eric P - Testing
 * ...
 
== Release Schedule ==

Release Start: March 15th, 2010

First Release Candidates: April 5th, 2010

Beta Testing: April 5th, 2010 through April 21st, 2010

Release Date: April 23rd, 2010

== Specifics ==

The following outline some exceptions to the overall release process.  Also see [pSPSReleaseManagement] for overall recomendations on this process for the perfSONAR-PS group.

=== Bugs Related to This Release ===

 * _*SNMP MA*_
   * ~~[http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=4 4] - _*Aaron*_ - reread SNMP MA store.xml file~~
   * ~~[http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=340 340] - _*Aaron*_ -  SNMP MA - Indicate it is not running due to cacti~~
 * _*pSB*_
   * ~~[http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=412 412] - _*Aaron*_ - pSB/owamp not restarting powstream properly~~
   * ~~[http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=420 420] - _*Aaron*_ - psb 'master' scripts can periodically not restart properly~~
     * Changed the signal handling some. It passes tests now, and appears to be working. 
 * _*hLS/gLS*_
   * ~~[http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=375 375] - _*Andy/Jason*_ - hLS silently does not register with gLS if doesn't have write permissions to root_hints_file~~
 * _*LS Registration Daemon*_
   * ~~[http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=405 405] - _*Aaron*_ - Soften log messages for LS Registration Daemon~~
 * _*GUIs*_
   * ~~[http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=307 307] - _*Aaron*_ - spiiner not working under IE ~~
   * ~~[http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=342 342] - _*Aaron*_ - make toolkit administrative information visible to non-admins~~
   * ~~[http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=403 403] - _*Aaron*_ - owamp test port range checking~~
   * ~~[http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=411 411] - _*Aaron/Andy*_ - Expose LAN Topology in Reverse Traceroute~~
 * _*perfSONAR Software*_
   * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=382 382] - _*Jason/Andy*_ - Package for the client modules
   * ~~[http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=416 416] - _*Andy*_ - Netlogger integration into pSPT~~
 * _*Disk Internals*_
   * ~~[http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=383 383] - _*Aaron*_ - pSPT Software Upgrade~~
     * NPAD has been upgraded to 1.5.6, cacti has been upgraded to 0.8.6e, the kernel has been upgraded to 2.6.27.45.
   * ~~[http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=407 407] - _*Andy*_ - Exploring DNS queries~~
   * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=408 408] - _*Andy*_ - cache.pl missing services
   * ~~[http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=409 409] - _*Aaron*_ - tcp state cache on pSPT~~
   * ~~[http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=417 417] - _*Aaron*_ - improve toolkit logging~~
 * _*Documentation*_ 
   * [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/issues/detail?id=374 374] - _*Andy*_ - Large clock change causes NTP to stop updating and services to stop
     * Andy/Jason to update documentation of this known issue

=== Code Reviews ===

Not applicable in this release.  

=== Documentation Reviews ===

Not applicable in this release.  

=== Testing ===

Testers should download ISO betas and excersize *ALL* functionality.  If you are upgrading, note so in your testing report.  If this is a new installation, note so in your testing report.  We will need testers to represent both worlds (e.g. perhaps format a disk if applicable).  

== Open Tasks ==

 * Jason
   * Update Issue Tracker - <font color=green>_*DONE - 3/12*_</font>
   * Documentation - <font color=red>_*NOT STARTED - 3/12*_</font>
   * Testing - <font color=blue>_*START AFTER - 4/5*_</font>
 * Aaron
   * Development - <font color=yellow>_*In Progress - 3/12*_</font>
   * Documentation - <font color=yellow>_*In Progress - 3/12*_</font>  
   * Testing - <font color=blue>_*START AFTER - 4/5*_</font>
 * Andy
   * Development - <font color=yellow>_*In Progress - 3/12*_</font>
   * Documentation - <font color=yellow>_*In Progress - 3/12*_</font>  
   * Testing - <font color=blue>_*START AFTER - 4/5*_</font>
 * Jeff
   * Testing - <font color=blue>_*START AFTER - 4/5*_</font>
 * Maxim 
   * Testing - <font color=blue>_*START AFTER - 4/5*_</font>
 * Brian
   * Testing - <font color=blue>_*START AFTER - 4/5*_</font>
 * Joe
   * Testing - <font color=blue>_*START AFTER - 4/5*_</font>
 * Ezra
   * Testing - <font color=blue>_*START AFTER - 4/5*_</font>
 * Eric P
   * Testing - <font color=blue>_*START AFTER - 4/5*_</font>

== Lessons Learned ==

TBD

== Last Updated ==

$Id$

