#summary Plans for the pS-Performance Toolkit 3.2 Release

= Plans for the pS-Performance Toolkit 3.2 Release =

<wiki:toc max_depth="6" />

== Goals ==

  * A different base Linux version to replace the current Knoppix base
  * Multiple installation possibilities
    * A Live CD version of the toolkit that functions similar to the current Knoppix-based version
    * A kickstart file to enable end users install their own version of the toolkit
    * A CD that users can boot and install the toolkit onto their hard drive
  * A method for upgrading existing systems to the new version
    * including saving existing configuration and data
    * At minimum, this upgrade will be for the Live CD toolkit version, but it would be nice to allow folks to upgrade their Live CD-based systems to installed systems.

== Base ==
=== Base Distribution ===
The pS-Performance Toolkit 3.2 release will be based on CentOS 5.5. There are a
number of reasons behind why CentOS 5.5 was selected as opposed to some other
version of Linux.

  * _*Widely Used*_: A large number of our end users are using CentOS or RedHat Enterprise Linux 5.x. They're comfortable with that versioning, and in some cases, the fact that we would be modifying CentOS makes security clearances and the like much easier.
  * _*Freely Available*_: Anyone is able to download, use and redistribute CentOS without needing to get specific licenses. The ability to redistribute is what allows us to make available the toolkit without having to go through a number of lawyers figuring out what's needed.
  * _*Stability*_: The CentOS 5.X series will be supported until 2014. Other distributions may or may not have long term support, and may not make package stability the highest priority (e.g. [http://lwn.net/Articles/377930/ Fedora])
  * _*Existing Packages*_: The perfSONAR-PS group has made all of their tools and services available as RPMs. The use of CentOS allows us to make use of the work that MCNC has done in packaging things like Web100 and NDT.
  * _*Various Installation Options*_: Once we have produced a kickstart installation routine for the toolkit, there are a number of utilities available that will allow us to use slightly modified versions of those kickstart files to produce things like bootable live CDs, installation CDs, etc. It also allows us to setup a repository allowing people to install the various utilities on their pre-existing CentOS or RedHat systems.

=== Tools/Services ===
The measurement tools/services that will come with the toolkit:

  * PingER
  * perfSONAR-BUOY
  * bwctl
  * owamp
  * NDT
  * NPAD
  * SNMP MA
  * Cacti
  * hLS
  * LS registration daemon
  * LS cache daemon

=== Web Interface ===
The web interface, for the initial version, will be a direct port of the web interface available on the current toolkit.

== Install CD Version ==
The Install CD version of the toolkit will provide end users an ISO that they can boot up that will install the Toolkit onto their system with a minimum of fuss. The version of the toolkit is not meant to be an upgrade for the existing 3.1 series.

== Live CD Version ==
The Live CD version of the toolkit is meant to be an upgrade to the 3.1 series of the toolkit, and will work in the same general fashion as the current toolkit: the user will boot the Live CD, and the configuration and data will be stored on the local hard drive.

== Roadmap ==

=== Milestone Base 1 ===
  * Produce an initial set of packages for the tools/services that will be included in the Toolkit
  * Tasks:
    * Build RPM of owamp
    * Build RPM of bwctl
    * Build RPM of PingER
    * Build RPM of Lookup Service
    * Build RPM of LS Registration Daemon
    * Build RPM of LS Cache Daemon
    * Build RPM of perfSONAR-BUOY
    * Build RPM of NDT
    * Build RPM of NPAD
    * Build RPM of web100 kernel
    * Build RPM of web100 userland
    * Build RPM of iperf
    * Build RPM of nuttcp

=== Milestone Base 2 - Alpha ===
  * Produce an initial kickstart file that will install the Toolkit with the exception of the Web GUI
  * Tasks:
    * Create development yum repository
    * Load all the above RPMs into the repository
    * Build kickstart file that installs all of the RPMs from the repository
    * Update the RPMs if needed (e.g. dependencies not accounted for or similar)
    * Start internal testing of alpha kickstart - Release team to nominate
 
=== Milestone Base 3 - Beta ===
  * Add the Web GUI to the Toolkit
  * Tasks:
    * Package the Web Configuration GUI
      * Change existing configuration backend to change the default locations of configuration files (if changed)
      * Build configuration daemon that the Web GUI can talk to to write new versions of configuration files and restart daemons
      * Either modify backend or web GUIs to talk to daemon instead of writing files/restarting services directly
    * Depending on how configuration is stored, make changes to the packaging of other services (e.g. if there's a centralized configuration file for common pS-PS configuration options)
      * The configuration has a large number of shared components. Centralizing these shared configuration pieces would make it easier to [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/wiki/pSPT32_DevNotes#Configuration_Change_Effects update service/tool configuration] when the system configuration changes
    * Add the Web Configuration GUI RPM to the yum repository
    * Update the kickstart file to include the Web Configuration GUI
    * Fix any issues encountered by alpha testers
    * Start internal testing of beta kickstart - Release team to nominate

=== Milestone Base 4 ===
  * Produce a final cut of the Base Toolkit
  * Tasks:
    * Collect user feedback from the beta testers
    * Fix any issues encountered by testers

=== Milestone Install CD 1 - Beta ===
  * Depends: Milestone Base 3
  * Produce an initial installation ISO for testing
  * Tasks:
    * Generate a basic installation kickstart from the Base kickstart
    * Migrate any changes to Base RPMs or kickstart to the Base
    * Distribute the ISO to testers willing to test out the Toolkit

=== Milestone Install CD 2 ===
  * Based on user feedback and testing, firm up the installation CD
  * Tasks:
    * Collect user feedback from the beta testers
    * Fix any issues encountered by testers
    * Migrate changes to the Base packages/kickstart as needed

=== Milestone Live CD 1 - Alpha ===
  * Depends: Milestone Base 4
  * Produce an initial Live CD instance that will save configuration/data to the backing store
  * Tasks:
    * Modify the standard Live CD to use the backing store instead of a ramdisk
    * Modify the command-line tools (network setup, password setting, and creating backing store) to work on the CentOS base
    * Build a tool to save the configuration to the backing store
    * Build a tool to store the data on the backing store
    * Package the above tools and include them in the Live CD kickstart
    * Migrate any changes to Base RPMs or kickstart to the Base
    * Distribute the ISO to testers willing to test out the Live CD instance of the Toolkit

=== Milestone Live CD 2 - Beta ===
  * Produce a Live CD instance that will upgrade an existing Knoppix-based installation
  * Tasks:
    * Produce tools capable of upgrading the existing backing store configuration/data to the new approach
      * See [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/wiki/pSPT32_DevNotes#Upgrade_Path here] for some specifics on how upgrades might be handled
    * Package the above tools and include them in the Live CD kickstart
    * Collect user feedback from the alpha testers
    * Fix any issues encountered by testers
    * Migrate changes to the Base packages/kickstart as needed
    * Distribute the ISO to testers willing to test out the Live CD instance of the Toolkit

=== Milestone Live CD 3 ===
  * Based on user feedback and testing, firm up the Live CD
  * Migrate changes to the Base packages/kickstart as needed
  * Tasks:
    * Collect user feedback from the beta testers
    * Fix any issues encountered by testers
    * Migrate changes to the Base packages/kickstart as needed
    * Distribute the ISO to testers willing to test out the Live CD instance of the Toolkit

=== Milestone Release Candidate 1 ===
  * Depends: Milestone Live CD 3, Milestone Install CD 2
  * Synchronize any changes to the Base necessitated by the Live CD or Install CD, and produce release candidates and documentation for each
  * Tasks:
    * Produce installation documentation for each of the installation methods
    * Produce toolkit documentation for the various services and web guis
    * Synchronize the changes needed to the Base by the various installation methods
    * Produce a kickstart, an installation ISO and a Live CD ISO
    * Distribute the ISOs to testers willing to test out the Toolkit

=== Milestone Release Candidate X ===
  * Based on user feedback and testing, firm up the Live CD and Install CD
  * Repeat as necessary to fix issues
  * Tasks:
    * Collect user feedback from the testers
    * Fix any issues encountered by testers
    * Firm up documentation based on user feedback

=== Milestone Final Release ===
  * Produce final versions of the Live CD, Install CD and documentation
  * Tasks:
    * Finalize documentation
    * Update relevant websites with release information
    * Produce any wider release announcements
    * Produce final versions of kickstart, installation ISO and Live CD ISO

== Last Modified ==

$Id$
