= Hardware Recommendations for LHC Tier2 Monitoring =

*_DRAFT_*

 * [Tier2HardwareRecomendations#Introduction Introduction]
 * [Tier2HardwareRecomendations#Suggested_Hardware Suggested Hardware]
 * [Tier2HardwareRecomendations#General_Recommendations General Recommendations]
   * [Tier2HardwareRecomendations#Processor Processor]
   * [Tier2HardwareRecomendations#RAM RAM]
   * [Tier2HardwareRecomendations#Storage Storage]
   * [Tier2HardwareRecomendations#Networking Networking]

== Introduction ==

The following recommendation has been made to the LHC Tier2 community regarding
hardware purchases to support the deployment of the 
[http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/wiki/NPToolkit NPToolkit].  It was
suggested to each site to purchase two of these systems:

 * The first will focus on Latency related tests ([http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/wiki/NPToolkit#PingER_Measurement_Archive_and_Measurement_Point PingER], [http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/wiki/NPToolkit#OWAMP OWAMP])
 * The second will focus on bandwidth related tests ([http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/wiki/NPToolkit#BWCTL BWCTL])
 
Other monitoring such as SNMP may be accomplished on either system due to low
overhead and passive nature.

== Suggested Hardware ==

The following system was built and delivered by 
[http://www.koicomputers.com/ Koi Computers].  Comparable systems may be
constructed by other vendors - the only true requirement being an Intel
compatible CPU.

 * ASUS RS100-X5/P12 1U Chassis with 180W Single Power Supply.
 * Intel 945GC/ICH7 Chipset Main Board. 
   * Onboard 2 x marvel 8056 GbE LAN Controller
   * Intel Graphics Media Accelerator 950
   * 2 x SATA Ports. 
 * Intel BX80557E2200 Pentium DC E2200 2.2GHz 1MB 800MHz Processor 
 * 2 Kingston KVR667D2N5/1G 1GB DDR2-5300 667MHz Non-ECC Unbuffered 
 * Seagate ST3160815AS 160GB SATA 16MB 7200RPM Hard Drive 
 * ASUS Slim DVD-ROM Drive 

== General Recommendations ==

In general the Internet2 and perfSONAR performance tools do not require special
hardware to function.  There are some minimum requirements with regards to 
processing power, storage, main memory, and networking that are easy to fulfil
with off-the-shelf hardware.  Common setups of a dedicated performance node
involve a dedicated rackmounted machine (1U will suffice) or desktop.  The
following sections discuss minimum hardware needs. 

=== Processor ===

Use the Intel family of processors only.  We recommend and develop for the 32
bit architecture but 64 bit is supported (see the 
[http://code.google.com/p/perfsonar-ps/wiki/NPToolkit#FAQ FAQ] for more
information).  Multiple CPUs or cores should not pose a problem.  Please use a
processor that would be capable of driving a modern Linux distribution (e.g.
having a speed > 1.5Ghz would be preferable).  

=== RAM ===

We recommend a minimum of 1G of RAM, there is no requirement on type.  More
memory will of course improve overall system performance.  

=== Storage ===

The storage of historical bandwidth and latency tests (both in raw files and
MySQL database tables) can take up a considerable amount of space over time.  We
recommend that the system have access to at least 80G of space to be useful over
time.  More space is always helpful; less space will require the system
administrator to perform routine maintenance to ensure the disk does not
fill.

=== Networking ===

Use the appropriate networking cards for the supplied uplink.  We recommend at
least 1G capable cards.  The Linux distribution that the NPToolkit is based 
([http://knoppix.net/ Knoppix]) contains many standard network card drivers.

= Last Updated =

$Id$
