           perfSONAR Topology Service Installation Instructions

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The perfSONAR-PS Topology Service helps facilitate sharing of network topology.
Networks deploy the service and register an XML representation of their network
topology with it. Interested clients can then query the service to discover the
data they are interested in.

The perfSONAR-PS Topology Service relies on an XML database, Oracle XML DB, to
store the topology information. Clients can then use standard XPath and XQuery
queries to perform arbitrary queries against the topologies. 


Prerequisites:
--------------

The Topology Service is packaged as an RPM - an installation format that is
geared towards use on Red Hat linux based systems. Examples include Fedora, Red
Hat Enterprise Linux, CentOS, White Box, Scientific Linux, and possibly others. 

These Linux distributions normally rely on "Package Management" tools to install
and maintain software. Examples of these tools include Up2Date and YUM.
Internet2 has created a repository to house the perfSONAR-PS software, related
performance tools, and hard to find prerequisites, we encourage adopters of
these tools to install a simple RPM package that gives the necessary
configuration information for the YUM tools. The RPM can be found here:

  http://software.interent2.edu/Internet2-repo-0.1-2.noarch.rpm
  
To install this RPM first import the signing key:

  rpm --import http://software.internet2.edu/rpms/RPM-GPG-KEY-Internet2

Then install the RPM:

  rpm -ivh Internet2-repo-0.1-2.noarch.rpm

It is also recommended that an additional repository be installed for hard to 
find prerequisite software that may not be available in traditional repositories
used by the Linux distributions. Two regarded repositories are:

 * http://dries.ulyssis.org/rpm/
 * http://dag.wieers.com/rpm/
 
Each site provides configuration instructions and packages similar to the
Internet2 repository.



Installation (YUM):
-------------------

YUM installation also manages the task of finding dependencies. The following
command is all that is needed:

  yum install perl-perfSONAR_PS-TopologyService-3.1-1.noarch.rpm

There may be several pre-requisites to install depending on the age of your
system. To ensure that all are found, please be sure to install one of the
alternative repositories above. 



Installation (Bare RPM):
------------------------

If you do not wish to install the Internet2 Repository package, you may simply
find the appropriate RPM for your architecture without using a package manger.
For example if you are on an "i386" architecture:

  wget -c http://software.internet2.edu/rpms/i386/main/RPMS/perl-perfSONAR_PS-TopologyService-3.1-1.noarch.rpm
  
To install without package manager help:

  rpm -ivh perl-perfSONAR_PS-TopologyService-3.1-1.noarch.rpm
  
Note that this RPM may need packages to install correctly: if they are not found
on your system manual download and install will be required. An alternate
method is to still use a package manager in a "local" way (YUM only):

  yum localinstall perl-perfSONAR_PS-TopologyService-3.1-1.noarch.rpm
  
This will still search the available repositories for any necessary packages.



Installation (Tar Package):
---------------------------

All RPM packages are also available in "source" packages that may be installed
and used in the typical Unix/Linux fashion. There are helper scripts included
that may be used to download the necessary prerequisite software packages:

  wget -c http://software.internet2.edu/source/perl-perfSONAR_PS-TopologyService-3.1-1.tar.gz
  tar -zxfv perl-perfSONAR_PS-TopologyService-3.1-1.tar.gz
  cd perl-perfSONAR_PS-TopologyService-3.1-1/scripts
  ./install_dependencies.sh
  ./prepare_environment.sh

These two included scripts will configure the machine's users and startup
scripts as well as contact CPAN for any necessary perl libraries. 



Installation (SVN):
-------------------

Software may be downloaded directly from our anonymous subversion server.  This
installation method allows for easy upgrades between versions and access to 
bugfixes immediately.  There are two ways to download from our server, one that
retrieves all software and another that retrieves only selective services.

To download the entire release:

  svn checkout http://anonsvn.internet2.edu/svn/perfSONAR-PS/branches/RELEASE_3.1 perfSONAR-PS
  
The instructions are the same here as for the Tar package.  When you wish to
update the checkout (to retrieve new development or bugfixes):

  cd perfSONAR-PS
  svn update
  
If a single service is all that is required, a similar method is used but also
note that the service must have access to a "Shared" directory that contains
perfSONAR-PS libraries:

  svn checkout http://anonsvn.internet2.edu/svn/perfSONAR-PS/tags/RELEASE_3.1/perfSONAR_PS-TopologyService/
  svn checkout http://anonsvn.internet2.edu/svn/perfSONAR-PS/tags/RELEASE_3.1/Shared
  
The instructions are also the same as above:

  cd Shared
  svn update

and

  cd perfSONAR_PS-TopologyService
  svn update

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

$Id$
