==============================================================================
perfSONAR-PS PingER
==============================================================================

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction
------------------------------------------------------------------------------


PingER (Ping End-to-end Reporting) is the name given to the Internet
End-to-end Performance Measurement (IEPM) project to monitor end-to-end
performance of Internet links. It is led by SLAC and development includes
NUST/NIIT, FNAL, GATech and ICTP/Trieste.

Originally in 1995 it was for the High Eneergy Physics community, however,
this century it has been more focussed on measuring the Digital Divide from an
Internet Performance viewpoint. The project now involves measurement to over
600 sites in over 125 countries, and we are actively seeking new sites to
monitor and monitoring sites for this project, as well as people interested in
our data.

PingER has a decade old data repository of network performance measurements
from and to sites around the world. Currently, there are around 35 monitoring
hosts in 13 countries monitoring over 300 sites in over 115 countries that
amongst them contain around 99% of the worlds Internet connected population.

PingER provides insight into a multitude of network activity. To summarize the
results, it is necessary to aggregate the measurements by region and to
divided them into measurements of long-term trends and of short-term glitches.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Uses for PingER
------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Technical: PingER data provides a lightweight way of monitoring the
throughput, loss and response times, effectively measuring the quality of a
particular link with little overhead. This also provides information for
setting up and auditing Service Level Agreements

Economical: Based on the presentation of the PingER findings, a recommendation
can be made to the policy/funding people to increase the bandwidth.
Furthermore, if one site in a certain region can attain credible connectivity,
then other sites in that region should be able to have better connectivity as
well. As a troubleshooting tool, PingER can be used to discern if a problem is
network related, identify the time the problem started, whether it is still
occurring, and provide quantitative analysis.

Collaboration: In order for scientists to collaborate, a certain level of link
quality is required. By using PingER to measure the loss and RTT, you are able
to provide expectations for the performance for bulk data transfer and other
applications. In case of real-time collaboration, by comparing the results
from PingER with various recommendations for loss, RTT and jitter, together
with the perceptions of voice quality from the users, you can determine how
well VoIP and other interactive applications might work between various pairs
of sites.


------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Architecture
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

PingER uses the ubiquitous Internet ping facility to measure the short and
long term Response Time, Packet Loss percentages, the variability of the
response time (jitter), and the lack of reachability (no response for a
succession of pings).

Ping is usually pre-installed on almost all platforms, so there is nothing to
install on the clients. The server (i.e. the echo responder) runs at a high
priority (e.g. in the kernel on UNIX) and so is more likely to provide a good
measure of network performance than a user application.

PingER is very modest in its network bandwidth requirements (~100 bps per
monitoring-remote- host-pair for the way we use it).

Due to the volume of data that can be collected by PingER, perfSONAR-PS PingER
can be configured to utilize SQLite, MySQL or Postgres storage backends.

perfSONAR-PS PingER is composed of two distinct components:

1) Measurement Archive (MA): Which allows communication via XML document based
Remote Procedure Call (XML) the data archive of PingER data.

2) Measurement Point (MP): Which performs the measurement and calculation of
derived statistics from Pings.


------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Installation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TODO

Database creation

A database backend will need to be installed before running PingER. Depending
upon the size of your installation, you can choose to either use a file based
database backend using SQLite, or a fully fledged database bakend using MySQL
or Postgres.

SQLite: Suitable for small installation where the number of hosts (TODO:
number?) to be pinged is small and data retrieval is not expected to have a
large volume.

MySQL/Postgres: Suitable for large installations with a large number of hosts
to be pinged or is expecting a large volume of data requests for PingER data.

The default installation uses a SQLite database for storage.

Scripts are provided to create the relevant database:

util/create_pingerMA_SQLite.sql
util/create_pingerMA_MySQL.sql

For example, in order to install a SQLite based database, enter the following
in a terminal prompt:

  $ sqlite3 <path to database file> < util/create_pingerMA_SQLite.sql

The database type, and database name must then be entered into the pinger.conf
file as defined below. For MySQL and Postgres installations, you may also
specify the hostname, port number, username and passwords for the database.

If installing PingER from CPAN or trying to use 'make test', there are 
problems with the test suite.  Please ignore the errors and continue/force the 
install.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Configuration
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1) pinger.conf: daemon configuration of MP and MA services. This file
specifies the relevant perfSONAR specific services of PingER such as the port
number, endpoints and registration service descriptions that the PingER MA and
MP should use.  Use util/psConfigureDaemon to make a configuration file.

2) pinger-landmarks.xml: A XML configuration file of the hosts to perform
measurements to. This also contains the specification of the tests and
measurement frequencies in which to perform the tests.  The actual name of the
landmarks file is specified in pinger.conf.  Sample landmarks files are 
included.


------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Starting PingER
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To start the PingER suite, change to the bin/ directory and simply run:

  $ perfsonar-daemon.pl

This will parse the pinger.conf file and initiate the PingER services as
defined for the MA and MP.



