#summary Developer Information for the NPtoolkit

= Introduction =

This page contains information necessary for anyone looking to help develop the NPtoolkit.

= Disk Overview =
The Network Performance Toolkit ([http://e2epi.internet2.edu/network-performance-toolkit.html NPToolkit]) is an modified version of a [http://www.knoppix.net/ Knoppix] Live-CD bootable disk.

= NPtoolkit Linux Distribution =
The disk itself has been upgraded to [http://www.debian.org/releases/etch/ Debian Etch] as the bulk of the packages included in the Knoppix distribution that the NPtoolkit was originally based on came from the distribution that would become Debian Etch. There are still a large number of Knoppix packages on the disk, especially in the realm of hardware detection, but the goal is to minimize the number of these packages since we don't have a way to upgrade them. Any packages for network facing services along with any packages for tools/libraries depended on by network facing services should be from Debian etch so that updates can easily be performed.

=perfSONAR-PS Services=

There are four perfSONAR-PS Services installed on the disk: the PingerMA, the perfSONAR-BUOY MA, the SNMP MA and the hLS. The code base for all of these services is located in the /usr/local/perfSONAR-PS directory. Whenever a new disk is released, the most recent version of the perfSONAR-PS services should be in there. The easiest way to do this is to use the following commands:

{{{
chroot /path/to/NPtoolkit/root/directory
svn export http://anonsvn.internet2.edu/svn/perfSONAR-PS/trunk /usr/local/perfSONAR-PS
rm -rf /usr/local/perfSONAR-PS/modules
}}}

The init files for each service are located in /etc/init.d. These init files differ from the init files located in the perfSONAR-PS repository as they have added functionality to save the configuration files on shutdown and swap the access point to match the current external interface.

= Pinger MA =

= Pinger Web Admin =

= perfSONAR-BUOY MA =

= perfSONAR-BUOY Web Admin =

= SNMP MA =

= Cacti =

= Cricket =

= hLS =

= BWCTL =

= NDT =

= NPAD =

= OWAMP =