             perfSONAR SNMP MA Service Installation Instructions

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The perfSONAR-PS SNMP Measurement Archive (MA) offers archived SNMP data stored
in Round Robin Database (RRD) files through a web services interface.  RRD
storage is normally used in tools such as MRTG, Cacti, and Cricket - interfaces
are provided for directly interacting with these tools or specifying the
information stored in RRD files of other types.

Prerequisites:
--------------

The SNMP MA is packaged as an RPM - a binary installation format that is geared
towards use on Red Hat linux based systems.  Examples include Fedora, Red Hat
Enterprise Linux, CentOS, White Box, Scientific Linux, and possibly others.  

These Linux distributions normally rely on "Package Management" tools to install
and maintain software.  Examples of these tools include Up2Date, YUM, and Apt.
Internet2 has created a repository to house the perfSONAR-PS software, related
performance tools, and hard to find prerequisites, we encourage adopters of
these tools to install a simple RPM package that gives the necessary
configuration information for the YUM and Apt tools.  The RPM can be found here:

  http://software.interent2.edu/Internet2-repo-0.1-2.noarch.rpm
  
To install this RPM first import the signing key:

  rpm --import http://software.internet2.edu/rpms/RPM-GPG-KEY-Internet2

Then install the RPM:

  rpm -ivh Internet2-repo-0.1-2.noarch.rpm

It is also recommended that an additional repository be installed for hard to 
find prerequisite software that may not be available in traditional repositories
used by the Linux distributions.  Two regarded repositories are:

 * http://dries.ulyssis.org/rpm/
 * http://dag.wieers.com/rpm/
 
Each site provides configuration instructions and packages similar to the
Internet2 repository.



Installation (APT):
-------------------

Installation through apt is easy, simple let the package manage do the work of
managing the dependencies:

  apt-get update
  apt-get install perl-perfSONAR_PS-SNMPMA-3.1-1.noarch.rpm

There may be several pre-requisites to install depending on the age of your
system.  To ensure that all are found, please be sure to install one of the
alternative repositories above.  



Installation (YUM):
-------------------

Like Apt, YUM installation also manages the task of finding dependencies.  The
following command is all that is needed:

  yum install perl-perfSONAR_PS-SNMPMA-3.1-1.noarch.rpm

There may be several pre-requisites to install depending on the age of your
system.  To ensure that all are found, please be sure to install one of the
alternative repositories above. 



Installation (Bare RPM):
------------------------

If you do not wish to install the Internet2 Repository package, you may simply
find the appropriate RPM for your architecture without using a package manger.
For example if you are on an "i386" architecture:

  wget -c http://software.internet2.edu/rpms/i386/main/RPMS/perl-perfSONAR_PS-SNMPMA-3.1-1.noarch.rpm
  
To install without package manager help:

  rpm -ivh perl-perfSONAR_PS-SNMPMA-3.1-1.noarch.rpm
  
Note that this RPM may need packages to install correctly: if they are not found
on your system manual download and install will be required.  An alternate
method is to still use a package manager in a "local" way (YUM only):

  yum localinstall perl-perfSONAR_PS-SNMPMA-3.1-1.noarch.rpm
  
This will still search the available repositories for any necessary packages.



Installation (Tar Package):
---------------------------

All RPM packages are also available in "source" packages that may be installed
and used in the typical Unix/Linux fashion.  There are helper scripts included
that may be used to download the necessary prerequisite software packages:

  wget -c http://software.internet2.edu/source/perl-perfSONAR_PS-SNMPMA-3.1-1.tar.gz
  tar -zxfv perl-perfSONAR_PS-SNMPMA-3.1-1.tar.gz
  cd perl-perfSONAR_PS-SNMPMA-3.1-1/scripts
  ./prepare_environment.sh
  ./install_dependencies.sh

These two included scripts will configure the machine's users and startup
scripts as well as contact CPAN for any necessary perl libraries.  



Installation (SVN):
-------------------

Similar to RPMs, a single service may be downloaded from our anonymous
subversion server.  This is useful for staying on the cutting edge of our
development (note the example below uses our specific release, but "trunk" may
be used as well:

  svn checkout http://anonsvn.internet2.edu/svn/perfSONAR-PS/branches/RELEASE_3.1/perfSONAR_PS-SNMPMA/

The instructions are the same here as for the Tar package.  When you wish to
update a specific svn checkout (to retrieve new development or bugfixes):

  cd perfSONAR_PS-SNMPMA
  svn update

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fri Mar 27 08:55:59 EDT 2009

